Received: from NAHOU-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.38]) by NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Tue, 30 Oct 2001 16:51:12 -0600
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: Enron Mentions
Date: Tue, 30 Oct 2001 16:50:56 -0600
Message-ID: <B01CFBF347A6844E96E6A0FFE88A98BC4EF57D@NAHOU-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <B01CFBF347A6844E96E6A0FFE88A98BC4EF57D@NAHOU-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: Enron Mentions
Thread-Index: AcFhlVRlq9zvrz2yTGeVOkuvb2Iouw==
From: "Votaw, Courtney" <Courtney.Votaw@ENRON.com>
Bcc:
Return-Path: Courtney.Votaw@ENRON.com

USA: Enron shares hit lowest level since July 1992.
Reuters English News Service- 10/30/01
Wolf Haldenstein Law Firm Announces Class Action Suit on Behalf of Purchasers of ONLY Enron Non-Common-Equity Stock, Including Preferred and Preferred-related Stock, Against Enron Corp.
Business Wire- 10/30/01
UK: UK power prices lower as mild weather hits demand
Reuters English News Service- 10/30/01

Stocks Close Lower as Investors React to Economic Data
Dow Jones Business News- 10/30/01
Enron Shares Fall a Day After Moody's Lowers Rating (Correct)
Bloomberg- 10/30/01

EPDC to Spend $500 Mln Abroad as Japan Deregulates Power Market
Bloomberg- 10/30/01

Enron Default Insurance Signals Eroding Confidence (Update5)
Bloomberg- 10/30/01

U.S. Equity Movers: Anthem, CVS, Enron, Hispanic Broadcasting
Bloomberg- 10/30/01

Enron chairman weathers a storm: Many in Houston believe Lay can get
firm back on track (BUSINESS)
The Dallas Morning News- 10/30/01



USA: Enron shares hit lowest level since July 1992.

10/30/2001
Reuters English News Service
(C) Reuters Limited 2001.
HOUSTON, Oct 30 (Reuters) - Shares of Enron Corp. on Tuesday dropped to their lowest level in more than nine years on Tuesday, a day after the embattled energy giant said it was seeking fresh credit and a rating agency cut some of the company's debt to two notches above junk status. 
Enron's stock was down $2.86, or 20.7 percent, at $10.95 in late trading on the New York Stock Exchange, extending the company's losing streak to a 10th straight day. The last time the shares traded below $11 was in July 1992.
After cutting Enron's rating on Monday, Moody's Investors Service warned that it could lower the rating on the company's senior unsecured debt even further, as well as cut Enron's short-term debt status. 
Houston-based Enron has lost more than $15 billion in market capitalization in the past two weeks amid a series of disclosures about off-balance-sheet deals with partnerships run by its former chief financial officer who was replaced last week. 
The Wall Street Journal said in its Tuesday edition that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had moved an inquiry about the deals from its regional office in Fort Worth, Texas, to its Washington D.C. headquarters, indicating that the probe is being treated as a high priority.



Copyright © 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 	


Wolf Haldenstein Law Firm Announces Class Action Suit on Behalf of Purchasers of ONLY Enron Non-Common-Equity Stock, Including Preferred and Preferred-related Stock, Against Enron Corp.

10/30/2001
Business Wire
(Copyright (c) 2001, Business Wire)
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Oct. 30, 2001--The following is an announcement from the law firm of Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP: 

Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP has commenced a class action lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, on behalf of purchasers of all Preferred Stock (collectively "Preferred Securities"), of Enron Corp.
("Enron" or the "Company") (NYSE: ENE) between on or about June 1, 1999, and October 26, 2001, inclusive (the "Class Period") against defendants Enron, Kenneth L. Lay (Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer), Jeffrey K. Skilling (former President, CEO and Chief Operating Officer), and Andrew S. Fastow (former Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President). The Class Definition does not include purchasers of Enron convertible stock. 
The case name and index number are Steiner v. Enron Corp., et al., H 01-CV-3717, pending in Houston, Texas. The case is before Judge David Hittner. 
The complaint alleges that defendants violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5, promulgated thereunder, by issuing materially false and misleading statements during the Class Period that had the effect of artificially inflating the market price of the Company's Preferred Securities. Specifically, the complaint alleges that Enron issued a series of statements concerning its business, financial results and operations which failed to disclose among other things that: (1) on or about June 1, 1999, the Company began entering into a series of extraordinarily leveraged investment and hedging transactions with a group of limited partnerships which were controlled by the then-Chief Financial Officer Andrew S. Fastow. Enron did not publicly disclose the details of these transactions, the material change in its investment and hedging strategy as represented by these transactions, the material increase in the degree of leverage and the business and investment risk with respect to these transactions, and generally, or that these transactions could lead to billions of dollars in borrowings and writedowns of shareholders' equity, which would jeopardize the value of Enron's Preferred Securities; (2) Enron was failure to write-down impaired assets on a timely basis in accordance with GAAP; and (3) the Company's operating results were materially overstated as a result of the Company's failing to timely write-down the value of its investments with certain limited partnerships, including those described above. On October 16, 2001, Enron surprised the market by announcing that in the third quarter of 2001, the Company was taking non-recurring charges of $1.01 billion after tax ($1.11 per diluted share). Enron failed to clearly disclose until October 18 that it also was taking a $1.2 billion writedown in shareholders' equity as a result of unwinding the investments with the limited partnerships controlled by Mr. Fastow. Since the announcement of the $1.2 billion writedown in shareholders' equity, the market price of Enron Preferred Securities has dropped significantly. 
This lawsuit is brought on behalf of only the Preferred Shareholders of Enron, which include among others the following classes of stock: 

1. Enron Capital LLC, 8.00%, 11/30/43 series, 8 million shares 
outstanding, traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 

2. Enron Capital Trust I, 8.3% Series, 8 million shares 
outstanding, traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 

3. Enron Capital Trust II, 8.1250% series (preferred R), 6 
million shares outstanding, traded on the New York Stock 
Exchange. 

4. Enron Capital Trust III, 200,000 shares outstanding. 

5. Enron Capital Resources LP, 9.0%, 8/31/24 Series A, 3 million 
shares outstanding, traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 

6. Portland General Electric, 7.75%, 6/15/07 series, 300,000 
shares outstanding, traded on the NASDAQ. 

7. Portland General Electric, 8.25%, 12/31/35 Series A, 3 million 
shares outstanding, traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Purchasers of Convertible Preferred Stock are not included in the Class. 
Plaintiff seeks to recover damages on behalf of all those who purchased or otherwise acquired Enron Preferred Securities. If you purchased or otherwise acquired Enron Preferred Securities during the Class Period, and either lost money on the transaction or still hold the securities, you may wish to join in the action to serve as lead plaintiff. If you purchased Enron Preferred Securities during the Class Period, you may, no later than December 21, 2001, request that the Court appoint you as lead plaintiff. A lead plaintiff is a representative party that acts on behalf of other class members in directing the litigation. In order to be appointed lead plaintiff, the Court must determine the class member's claim is typical of the claims of other class members, and that the class member will adequately represent the class. Under certain circumstances, one or more class members may together serve as "lead plaintiffs." Your ability to share in any recovery is not, however, affected by the decision whether or not to serve as a lead plaintiff. You may retain Wolf Haldenstein, or other counsel of your choice, to serve as your counsel in this action. Although you may contact and retain as your counsel one of the law firms which are representing common stock shareholders in related litigations, we recommend that anyone who owns Preferred Securities should contact attorneys who will only represent preferred shareholders. 
Wolf Haldenstein has extensive experience in the prosecution of securities class actions and derivative litigation in state and federal trial and appellate courts across the country. The firm has approximately 60 attorneys in various practice areas; and offices in Chicago, New Jersey, New York City, San Diego, and West Palm Beach. The reputation and expertise of this firm in shareholder and other class litigation has been repeatedly recognized by the courts, which have appointed it to major positions in complex securities, multi-district and consolidated litigation. 
If you interested in being included in our action or serving as one of the lead plaintiffs, please contact Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP at 270 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10016, by telephone at (800) 575-0735 (George Peters, Derek Behnke, Robert B. Weintraub, Esq., Jeffrey G. Smith, Esq., Daniel W. Krasner, Esq.), via e-mail at classmember@whafh.com or visit our website at http://www.whafh.com. Your e-mail should refer to Enron Preferred Securities.

CONTACT: Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP, New York George Peters, Derek Behnke, Robert B. Weintraub Jeffrey G. Smith, Daniel W. Krasner 800/575-0735 
15:43 EST OCTOBER 30, 2001 


Copyright © 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 	

UK: UK power prices lower as mild weather hits demand.

10/30/2001
Reuters English News Service
(C) Reuters Limited 2001.
LONDON, Oct 30 (Reuters) - UK electricity prices dipped on Tuesday, pressured by a sagging prompt market as mild weather dented demand. 
Liquidity fell as around 10 companies kept on hold their dealings with U.S. group Enron as they reviewed their credit arrangements with the troubled company.
"There have been a few problems with liquidity, there aren't as many prices out there, but it's not serious," said one trader. 
Enron, mainly via its EnronOnline Internet platform is one of the UK market's biggest traders. 
Day ahead baseload last traded around 15.20 pounds a megawatt hour, down five pounds from the previous close. It was offered at 15.45 pounds at the close. 
Traders blamed lower-than-expected demand due to warm weather for prompt market weakness. 
National Grid said demand through to the middle of last week was about two percent down on the same period last year. 
December baseload also fell sharply, assessed around 19.05 pounds, down 70 pence. 
Forward curve prices also dropped as a bearish tone took hold across the market. 
Summer 02 baseload was down about 10 pence at 17.32 pounds and winter 02 baseload shed 20 pence to 19.70 pounds.



Copyright © 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 	

Stocks Close Lower as Investors React to Economic Data
By Erin Schulte

10/30/2001
Dow Jones Business News
(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
The Wall Street Journal Interactive 
Stocks declined Tuesday after a consumer-confidence report fell far short of economists' expectations, though losses narrowed slightly throughout the day.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended down 147.52, or 1.6%, at 9121.98 after skidding 275.67 in the previous session; at one point, the average had been down more than 200 points. The Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 32.11, or 1.9%, to 1667.41 after tumbling 69.44 on Monday. 
Other indexes also lost ground. The S&P 500 Index gave back 18.51 to 1059.79, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index sank 9.11 to 546.74, and the Russell 2000 Index declined 6.58 to 422.83. 
Bonds gained and the dollar was mixed. 
The Conference Board, a New York research group, said U.S. consumer confidence slid in October to a much weaker-than-expected reading and the lowest level since 1994. 
The main index fell to 85.5 in October from a revised 97 in September; economists surveyed by Thomson Global Markets had expected an October reading of 96. 
This month's report was previously cited by bond-market strategists as an indicator of particular importance to gauge the response of consumers in the weeks following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, but also the level of confidence as the U.S. continues to face the threat of anthrax. 
Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist for High Frequency Economics, said the number was "in short, awful." However, he added, much of the decline could be blamed on the present-situation number, which tumbled to 107.6 from 125.4. 
"If there is any saving grace in these numbers it is that the present-situation index, which tells us little about future spending, fell by much more than the expectations number, which does have real forward-looking value," he said. The expectations number dropped to 70.8 from 78.1 
The consumer-confidence report is one of several key indicators due out this week. 
On Wednesday, the Bureau of Economic Analysis will report on third-quarter gross domestic product. On Thursday, the National Association of Purchasing Management will report on how the manufacturing sector fared in October, and the Labor Department's closely watched monthly unemployment data will be released Friday. 
Selling in key international markets also pressured Wall Street. Frankfurt's DAX was down 2.5%, while London's Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-Share Index was down 1.6%. Earlier, Japan's Nikkei 225 Average closed with a loss of 0.94%, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index fell 1%. 
Among stocks to watch, CVS was one of the Big Board's biggest losers, tumbling 23% after the drugstore chain posted a 23% decline in third-quarter net income and unveiled a restructuring plan that includes the shutdown of about 200 stores in the first quarter of next year. 
Also, Merrill Lynch cut the company's long-term rating to "accumulate" from "buy." 
"Shrinkage, poor general merchandise sales and supermarket-type discounting are all robbing the company of a vital year-end gross-margin flourish," said Merrill Lynch analyst Mark Husson. "While these problems are fixable, we believe there is not much for investors to get excited about in the intermediate-term." 
Rite Aid and Walgreen's followed CVS's path lower, declining 9.5% and 2.7% respectively after Merrill Lynch cut their long-term ratings to "accumulate" from "buy." 
Dow component Eastman Kodak was the biggest loser of the industrial average, sinking 6.9% after Lehman Brothers said Wal-Mart Stores was ready to unveil a private-label film offering, which could hurt sales for Kodak's film. 
McDonald's also was a big loser among Dow industrial components, giving up 4.7% after the fast-food chain cut its earnings guidance for 2002 to an improvement of between 5% to 10%, well below traditional double-digit guidance. The company also said it will take a charge in the current quarter to cover restructuring. 
And Dow component Philip Morris lost 4% after Goldman Sachs analyst Marc Cohen removed the tobacco giant from his "recommended for purchase" list and lowered the 2002 earnings estimate to $4.45 a share from $4.53, which represents 10% profit growth instead of previously expected growth of 12%. 
Enron shares tumbled 19% as credit concerns persisted about the Houston energy-trading company. Moody's Investors Service lowered its ratings by one notch on the company's senior unsecured debt and kept the company under review for a possible further downgrade. And the Securities and Exchange Commission has moved its inquiry into Enron's finances to the agency's Washington headquarters from a regional office. 
In major U.S. market action: 
Stocks fell. On the Big Board, where 1.30 billion shares traded, 2,159 stocks fell and 943 rose. On the Nasdaq, 1.79 billion shares traded hands. 
Bonds gained. The 10-year Treasury note rose more than 1/2 point, or $5 for each $1,000 invested. The yield, which moves inversely to price, fell to 4.416%. The 30-year bond was up 3/4 point to yield 5.215%. 
The dollar was mixed. It traded at 121.94 yen, down from 122.97 late Monday, while the euro fell against the dollar to 90.46 U.S. cents from 90.48. 
Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved.



Copyright © 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 	

Enron Shares Fall a Day After Moody's Lowers Rating (Correct)
2001-10-30 16:48 (New York)

Enron Shares Fall a Day After Moody's Lowers Rating (Correct)

     (Corrects today's low price in second paragraph.)

     Houston, Oct. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Enron Corp. shares fell 19
percent after touching the lowest level in more than nine years, a
day after Moody's Investors Service placed the largest energy
trader's rating for commercial paper on review for downgrade and
lowered its long-term debt to two notches above junk status.

     Shares of Enron dropped $2.65 to $11.16. Earlier, the stock
fell to $10.90, the lowest since July 1992. The stock, down for
the 10th day in a row, has tumbled 87 percent this year.

     Moody's lowered Enron's long-term credit rating to ``Baa2''
from ``Baa1'' yesterday. It also placed the company's ``P-2''
rating for commercial paper on review for possible downgrade.

     ``I think investors would have loved to have no downgrade or
a more stable outlook for the company,'' Commerzbank Securities
analyst Andre Meade said. ``Moody's left some uncertainty.''

     Meade doesn't own Enron shares and rates the company
``accumulate.''

     Executives from Exelon Corp., American Electric Power Co. and
Northeast Utilities said they still are trading with Enron.

                        `Watching Closely'

     ``Nervous is probably not the right word, but we are watching
very closely,'' AEP Chief Executive Officer Linn Draper said at an
energy conference in New Orleans. ``We are focusing our new deals
with them in the short term, November and December,''

     Columbus, Ohio-based AEP is the biggest U.S. electricity
generator. Traders often buy and sell power for delivery the next
day or for over a week, month, quarter or calendar year. The
Bloomberg Energy Service is quoting power prices for as far ahead
as September 2003.

     ``We are keeping a close eye on our exposure,'' Exelon Corp.
Co-Chief Executive Officer John Rowe said at the conference. ``We
are keeping a tight dollar limit on trades.'' He declined to
provide specifics.

     Chicago-based Exelon is the biggest U.S. nuclear-power
producer.

     ``Three weeks ago, we started monitoring our position with
Enron,'' Northeast Chief Financial Officer John Forsgren said at
the conference. ``Right now, we have a net payable to them, so
there's no exposure on our side, and we'll probably keep it that
way.''

     Northeast, based in Berlin, Connecticut, will continue to
trade with Enron as long as its debt ratings remain investment
grade, Forsgren said. Northeast is New England's biggest utility
owner.

                            SEC Inquiry

     The Wall Street Journal reported that a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission inquiry into Enron's financial dealings with
affiliates, run by the company's former chief financial officer
Andrew Fastow, has moved to Washington, signaling the
investigation has become more serious.

      Investors say they are worried about $3.3 billion in
liabilities from the affiliates, which were formed to buy and sell
Enron assets. Houston-based Enron ousted Fastow on Wednesday amid
the SEC inquiry into the partnerships he ran that cost the company
at least $35 million.

     Other energy stocks also fell today as the price of natural
gas on the New York Mercantile Exchange dropped as much as 3.7
percent. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index as much as 2.3 percent as
consumer confidence in the U.S. economy dropped in October to the
lowest level in more than 7 1/2 years.

     Shares of Duke Energy Corp. fell $1.43 to $37.71. Dynegy Inc.
dropped $2.63, or 6.8 percent, to $36.30. El Paso Corp. fell
$1.54, or 3 percent, to $49.20. Exxon Mobil Corp. fell $1.22, or 3
percent, to $39.46.



EPDC to Spend $500 Mln Abroad as Japan Deregulates Power Market
2001-10-30 16:46 (New York)

EPDC to Spend $500 Mln Abroad as Japan Deregulates Power Market

     Tokyo, Oct. 31 (Bloomberg) -- Electric Power Development Co.,
set up 49 years ago by Japan to power industrial growth, plans to
spend $500 million on utility stakes from Thailand to the U.S. to
help its first share sale as competition increases at home.

     EPDC, two-thirds owned by the finance ministry and the rest
by Japan's nine regional power companies, wants to add almost
2,000 megawatts capacity with stakes in power plants in the
Philippines, Korea, Taiwan, China and the U.S., to supplement
investments in Thailand and India, said Masahide Takaraya, deputy
director general of the company's international division.

     With Japan facing its worst recession in a decade, and the
government ending regional power monopolies in the country's $122
billion electricity market, EPDC, Tokyo Electric Power Co. and
rivals are looking overseas to expand.

     ``So far, their foreign investments are not big enough to
offset the domestic downturn. If they want to improve their
profit, (overseas acquisitions) have to get a lot bigger,'' said
Yoshihiko Ito. He has no power stocks among the $1.5 billion he
helps manage for Asahi Life Investment Co. because ``they're
constantly under the threat of deregulation and have no pricing
power.''

     In March 2000, Japan began deregulation by allowing 30
percent of the biggest power users to buy electricity from any
supplier, ending decades of monopoly by ten regional generators.
Enron Corp., the largest energy trader, said it may generate and
supply electricity in Japan in one or two years if the market
opens.

     Meanwhile, Japan's economy will probably shrink this fiscal
year and next, the Bank of Japan said.

                           Asian Influx

     ``All Japanese power companies are looking abroad because the
Japanese economy is worsening,'' said Masahiro Oonishi, head of
EPDC's planning and administration department. ``Nowadays the
international department is trying to find big businesses in
Asia.''

     Tokyo Electric, or Tepco, in 1999 bought a tenth of
Baltimore, Maryland-based Orion Power Holdings Inc. for $80
million, a stake it has since sold to Reliant Energy Inc. Japan's
largest power company now has investments in Taiwan and Vietnam.

     ``We're seeking alternative profit sources outside of Japan
following deregulation in the local electricity industry,'' said
Takashi Nakayama, a Tepco spokesman.

     EDPC began its overseas campaign even earlier, in 1997, with
a 50 megawatt geothermal project in the Philippines. Last year, it
bought 11 percent of BPL Group's 520 megawatt power project at
Ramagundam in south India. It now owns minority stakes in power
projects in the Philippines, China and Thailand.

     Still, the expansion in Asia may have more to do with
troubles in Japan than the attractiveness of overseas investment,
said Hiroyuki Sakaida, an analyst at BNP Paribas Securities Japan
Ltd.

                           No Confidence

     ``They have no confidence they can get higher returns
abroad,'' said Sakaida. ``They're forced to seek business because
of sharper competition at home.''

     Japanese utilities make an average 5 percent return on their
domestic assets. Even if Asian acquisitions give a higher return,
that may be offset by political and currency risks, Sakaida said.

     Rivals' failed investments underline the point. Enron Corp.
is trying to sell its 65 percent stake in Indian generator Dabhol
Power Co., which is mired in a nine-month-old payment dispute with
its sole customer, Maharashtra State. Malaysia's Tenaga Nasional
Bhd., has labeled its Pakistan investment `Liability Power'
because the unit, Liberty Power Ltd., has lost $132 million.

     Japanese power companies ``need to avoid country risks abroad
where they have little experience,'' Sakaida said. ``Thailand is a
good choice because it has a relatively small country risk.''

     Almost half of EPDC's $100 million overseas investments to
date are in Thailand, including a half share of Gulf Electric Pcl,
60 percent-owner of a 734-megawatt coal-fired power project; and
19 percent of a 700 megawatt plant run by Thai Oil Power Co. EPDC
is also building in Thailand its first biomass plant outside
Japan, which uses agricultural waste as fuel.

                       Favorite Destination

     ``Thailand is our favorite destination because we believe
political risk there is almost zero,'' said EPDC's Takaraya.

     ``Still, it's a little bit dangerous to concentrate our
portfolio in one country.'' The next acquisition may be a stake in
a gas-fired power plant in the Philippines, he said.

     EPDC's overseas campaign demonstrates Japan's change in
policy. The company was set up in 1952 to build hydro and coal-
fired power stations to reduce dependence on oil-fired power and
help meet increasing demand from industrial growth. Its 58
hydropower plants and eight thermal stations are able to generate
as much as 16,015 megawatts, or 6.4 percent of the country's
capacity.

     EPDC's sales for the year ended March rose 10 percent to $4.1
billion, while gross profit rose 7 percent to $292 million.
     In June 1997, Japan's cabinet decided to privatize the
company within five years as part of the proposed deregulation.
The sale, now expected in 2003, would help cut the company's debt,
which totaled 2.1 trillion yen ($17 billion), or 30 times its
capital, in March.

     Japan's power producers, able to sell bonds paying as little
as 0.5 percent, are some of Asia's biggest borrowers. Tepco owed
7.76 trillion yen in long term debt in March.

     EPDC says it's aware of the political risks in investing in
Asia and chooses markets carefully.

     ``It's not the time to go to Indonesia,'' Takaraya said.



Enron Default Insurance Signals Eroding Confidence (Update5)
2001-10-30 16:32 (New York)

Enron Default Insurance Signals Eroding Confidence (Update5)

     (Adds background in 10th paragraph.)

     New York, Oct. 30 (Bloomberg) -- The price that investors pay
to protect against a bond default by Enron Corp. doubled this
week, reflecting on erosion of confidence in the biggest energy
trader. The shares plunged for a 10th day.

     To hedge against losses for the next 18 months, investors now
have to pay as much as 16.5 percent of the face value of bonds
they own. A week ago, such insurance cost 7.5 percent,  according
to CreditSights Inc.

      Enron ``made a lot of people nervous and the concern is the
nervousness will seep into Enron's operating business,'' said
Austin Ramzy, director of fixed income research at Principal
Capital Income Investors in Des Moines, Iowa, which owns about
$190 million in Enron bonds. ``The question of the day is whether
the crisis of confidence can be stopped.''

      The increase in the price of so-called default swaps is
another reflection, along with a 65 percent decline in Enron
shares in the past two weeks, that investors are losing confidence
in the company, analysts said.

     Enron shares, down 19 percent today to $11.16, have fallen
every day since the company surprised investors by writing off
$1.2 billion of assets on Oct. 17.

     Enron's 6.4 percent coupon bonds due in 2006 were bid at 73
cents on the dollar, traders said, down as much as 7 cents from
yesterday's price of 80 cents. The debt now yields 14.5 percent,
up from 12.1percent yesterday and 10.8 percent on Friday.

                             Exposure

     ``Banks wanting to hedge risk are pushing the price higher,''
said Andy Palmer, who doesn't own Enron bonds in the $1.25 billion
he helps manage at ASB Capital Management Inc.

     Enron default protection has risen from less than 3 percent
per year, a price that is common for similarly rated companies.
Other energy traders' such as Williams Cos. Inc. and Dynegy Inc.
both have default insurance premiums below 2 percent per year,
traders said.

     The increase in Enron's credit default swaps ``may be
overstating the default risk,'' said Palmer. The purchasers of the
default swaps are mainly banks that have loan exposure to Enron
and ``banks are not as price-sensitive as institutional
investors,'' said Palmer. ``They just want to get the exposure off
their books.''

     Principal Capital, which is an institutional investor, said
did not buy protection for its $190 million of Enron bonds.

     John Tompkins, a trader at CreditTrade, a credit derivatives
brokerage, said there's interest among buyers, though not sellers
of Enron default swaps. He said there are bids for Enron credit
default swaps at 7 to 8 percent annually for five years'
protection and 12 percent annually on the three years' contract --
with no offers.

     Enron Credit was one of the world's biggest non-bank traders
of default insurance.

                            Undisclosed

     The largest energy trader's troubles began two weeks ago when
it reported $1.01 billion in losses, including more than $544
million written off on a competitive energy supplier business and
a bandwidth trading business.

     Enron formed at least 18 affiliated companies to buy and sell
company assets, according to records from the Texas secretary of
state. Some of those affiliates profited after Enron used $1.2
billion of company stock to buy back assets from the partnership.

     The Houston-based company losses included $35 million from
partnerships set up by Chief Financial Officer Andrew Fastow.
Fastow was later fired as chief financial officer and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission has asked for information about
the transactions.

     The disclosure has set off concern among investors about how
little is known about Enron's balance sheet and caused ratings
companies to examine the company.

     ``Investors are nervous about this name,'' said Freda Lam, a
fixed-income analyst at J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. in New York.

                        Investor Relations

     Enron's long-term debt rating was cut yesterday to ``Baa2,''
two levels above junk, from ``Baa1.'' Moody's also placed the
Houston-based company's ``P-2'' rating for commercial paper --
borrowing for nine-months or less -- on review for downgrade.
Enron has been shut off from the commercial paper market since the
ratings agencies began the review.

     The lack of access to money markets makes it more difficult
for Enron to borrow the short-term cash needed to run its trading
businesses. Ahead of a potential cut, Enron took out bank lines to
repay $2 billion in commercial paper last week.

     Still, many on Wall Street expects Enron's bonds to be paid
and its stock price to bounce back.

     ``We suspect that Enron's share price will not likely recover
in the near term,'' Lam said. ``We ultimately expect this company
to be successful. But it needs to improve its investor relations
and its disclosure.''



U.S. Equity Movers: Anthem, CVS, Enron, Hispanic Broadcasting
2001-10-30 13:24 (New York)

U.S. Equity Movers: Anthem, CVS, Enron, Hispanic Broadcasting

     New York, Oct. 30 (Bloomberg) -- The following is a list of
companies whose shares are moving in U.S. markets Monday, Oct. 29.
The stock symbol is in parentheses after the company name.

Major Moving Stocks:

     Anthem Inc. (ATH) rose $4.57, or 13 percent, to $40.57 and
traded as high as $40.80. The health-benefits company raised $1.78
billion in its initial public offering.

     CVS Corp. (CVS) fell $8.01, or 25 percent, to $23.61 and
traded as low as $23. The drugstore chain said profit this year
will unexpectedly decline and it will close 200 stores and cut
jobs early next year.

Other Moving Stocks:

     CrossWorlds Software Inc. (CWLD) rose $1.02, or 29 percent,
to $4.56 and traded as high as $4.58. International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) agreed to buy the maker of electronic-
commerce software for $129 million in cash.

     CSG Systems International Inc. (CSGS) fell $6.94, or 18
percent, to $32.26 and traded as low as $30.40. The provider of
billing services for cable- and satellite-television companies
expects 2002 earnings of $2 to $2.15 a share, which is lower than
the $2.48 average estimate of analysts polled by Thomson
Financial/First Call.

     CTC Communications Group Inc. (CPTL) fell 90 cents, or 13
percent, to $6 and traded as low as $5.26. The provider of
telecommunications services doesn't expect to have positive
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
until the fourth quarter ending in March. That is one quarter
later than its previous estimate.

     Dycom Industries Inc. (DY) fell $1.40, or 11 percent, to
$10.99 and traded as low as $10.75. The provider of engineering
and construction services to telecommunications companies said
profit, excluding certain costs, in the first quarter ended
Saturday was 13 cents to 15 cents a share. On that basis, which
isn't in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
profit was 5 cents to 7 cents below expectations, the company said
in a statement distributed by PR Newswire.

     Enron Corp. (ENE) fell $2.51, or 18 percent, to $11.30 and
traded as low as $11.07. The Securities and Exchange Commission
will move its investigation of the energy trader to Washington
from Fort Worth, Texas, a sign the agency wants to make a quick
decision above whether to allege securities-law violations, the
Wall Street Journal reported.

     Ensco International Inc. (ESV) fell $2.25, or 10 percent, to
$20.32 and traded as low as $20. The offshore oil driller was
downgraded to ``hold'' from ``add'' by ABN Amro Securities LLC
analyst Matthew Conlan.

     Hispanic Broadcasting Co. (HSP) fell $2.76, or 15 percent, to
$15.25 and traded as low as $15.05. The Spanish-language
broadcaster said third-quarter profit fell to 8 cents a share from
12 cents a year earlier because it sold less advertising.

     Homestore.com Inc. (HOMS) fell 74 cents, or 13 percent, to
$5.15 and traded as low as $4.86. The Internet real-estate listing
service was downgraded to ``market outperform'' from ``recommend
list'' by Goldman, Sachs & Co. analyst Anthony Noto.

     Macrovision Corp. (MVSN) fell $8.75, or 26 percent, to $24.72
and traded as low as $23.80. The maker of copyright-protection
software expects fourth-quarter revenue to be unchanged from the
$23 million it had in the third quarter. It was expected to have
sales of $31.5 million, the average estimate of four analysts
surveyed by First Call.

     McDonald's Corp. (MCD) fell for a second day, dropping $1.61,
or 5.9 percent, to $25.67. The stock traded as low as $25.55. The
fast-food chain yesterday said it will open 200 fewer restaurants
and buy back as much as $5 billion in stock, as the company tries
to turn around four quarters of falling profit.

     Odwalla Inc. (ODWA) rose $3.29, or 28 percent, to $15.12 and
traded as high as $15.21. Coca-Cola Co. (KO) agreed to buy the
natural fruit-drink maker for $181 million in cash. Coca-Cola will
pay $15.25 a share for Odwalla's common stock.

     Openwave Systems Inc. (OPWV) fell $1.91, or 21 percent, to
$7.08 and traded as low as $6.69. The maker of software for
accessing the Internet over mobile phones said sales in the second
quarter ending in December will be about $100 million, which is
less than the $123.4 million average estimate of analysts polled
by First Call.

     RehabCare Group Inc. (RHB) fell $13.48, or 35 percent, to
$25.22 and traded as low as $23. The manager of hospital
rehabilitation services said it will have fourth-quarter earnings
of 41 cents to 42 cents a share. The company had been expected to
earn 46 cents, the average estimate of six analysts polled by
First Call.

     Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) rose $1.66, or 18 percent,
to $10.81 and traded as high as $10.95. The cruise-line company
had third-quarter net income of 82 cents a share, compared with
the 72-cent average estimate of analysts polled by First Call.

     Sulzer Medica AG (SM) American depositary shares, 10 of which
represent one share, fell $1.49, or 35 percent, to $2.80 and
traded as low as $2.30. The maker of orthopedic products said a
court will allow individual lawsuits over faulty hip and knee
implants, casting doubt on a plan for a group settlement.


Enron chairman weathers a storm: Many in Houston believe Lay can get
firm back on track (BUSINESS)
Bruce Nichols

10/28/2001
The Dallas Morning News
1H
Copyright 2001 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2001 The
Dallas Morning News, L.P.

  HOUSTON - Over the last 15 years, Enron Corp. has transformed itself
from a sleepy gas pipeline company into an energy trading giant.

  Chairman Ken Lay has changed along with it, from mere titan of
business to Houston's leading citizen.


  So when business reversals hit Enron and Mr. Lay, the ripples are felt
throughout civic life in a city where he has held virtually every
leadership position and the corporate name graces the baseball stadium.

  Two months after his heir apparent resigned, Mr. Lay has seen his
company buffeted by investors and has had to oust his chief financial
officer.

  The Securities and Exchange Commission is looking into deals in which
the former CFO played dual roles with Enron and a hedge group.

  "My sense is it's probably a little too soon to tell what the impact
is with Ken himself," said Bob Eury, president of Central Houston Inc.,
a downtown development group.

  A loss of his and Enron's leadership "would be profound," Mr. Eury
added, but most Houstonians expect Mr. Lay to weather the company's
difficulties and continue his "marvelous leadership out in the
community."

  Still, no one is going to be surprised if Mr. Lay is preoccupied for a
while.

  "If the ship's on fire, you address that first," said oilman George
Strake, who has worked with Mr. Lay on civic projects.

  Mr. Lay, 58, returned to the chief executive's role in August when his
protege, Jeffrey K. Skilling, quit as CEO and president after only six
months on the job. And Mr. Lay cited those burdens last week when he
resigned as a director for i2 Technologies, the software developer based
in Farmers Branch.

  "This is a very painful decision," Mr. Lay said in a prepared
statement. "But now that I am again taking on the CEO responsibilities
at Enron, I must reduce my outside activities."

  Enron's fall has been hard.

  From a 52-week peak of $84.62 on Dec. 28, the stock has been tumbling
for months. It skidded all the way to $15.40 as of Friday's close, about
half its value just two weeks earlier.

  Profits remain strong, but the company has announced write-downs of
key assets - totaling $1.01 billion in after-tax nonrecurring expenses -
and Wall Street analysts have turned coldly skeptical, if not hostile.

  Mounting troubles

  Enron confirmed the Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry into
deals involving the just-departed CFO, Andrew Fastow. Under pressure,
Enron replaced him Wednesday.

  There have been other troubles, too. As lead advocate for electricity
market restructuring, Enron found itself under furious attack during
California's energy crisis last spring. Investments in communications
and water businesses soured. A huge power plant project in India has
become a problem.

  Mr. Lay has said all the concern is misplaced.

  "To say the least, we are ... disappointed with our stock price," he
told investors last week. But "our businesses are performing very well,
and we're continuing to conduct business as usual."

  As for the SEC's interest, "We welcome ... the opportunity it provides
us to put these matters to rest," he said.

  Skepticism that Mr. Lay can pull Enron back into the middle of the
road exists in Houston.

  But the doubters don't want to be quoted by name and are not
necessarily betting against him, considering his past successes.

  In Houston, "nobody's dancing on his grave," said lawyer David Berg,
who's active in civic and political affairs. "There's a lot of residual
respect for Ken Lay, and it's not going to go away even if he goes
bankrupt, but that isn't going to happen."

  Wall Street reaction

  Financier Charles Miller, a Wall Street veteran, said analysts appear
to be ganging up on Enron, with a few making "indefensible" comments
that might be criminal if made about a bank.

  "Wall Street may be envious of the fact that, from the trading
standpoint, he may have made one of the most profitable trading
operations in the history of the world and, from all I can tell, very
soundly," Mr. Miller said.

  From Wall Street comes a different interpretation: After the exit of
two top executives in two months, the company's other problems, and the
SEC's inquiry, it's time for more information from the company.

  "They've breached the confidence level with one thing after another,"
said John Parry, analyst with John S. Herold Inc.

  The 1980s oil, banking, and real estate busts have colored Houston's
attitude toward business reversals, some say.

  Having seen fortunes rise, fall, and rise again in the '90s, Houston
is less likely to lose leaders to temporary setbacks, energy banker
Matthew Simmons said.

  "Most cities, if you're new or if you're struggling, you're shut out,"
Mr. Simmons said. Not Houston, and "I think that's its genius."

  Real estate investor Ned Holmes recalled that when Exxon Corp.
suffered through the 1989 Alaska oil spill, the Chamber of Commerce
threw a reception to express support and appreciation for the company's
civic contributions.

  "We all turned out and told them that ... we know this is a difficult
deal, but they're an important part of this community and we're not
turning our back on them," Mr. Holmes said. "People feel every bit as
strongly, if not more so, about Ken."

  It's hard to overstate the importance of Mr. Lay and Enron in Houston.

  He chaired or co-chaired committees leading Houston in playing host to
the G-7 Summit in 1990 and the Republican National Convention in 1992.
He chaired the University of Houston board of regents.

  When plans for a new baseball stadium hit a snag in the mid-1990s, he
assembled a group of investors to buy the land and facilitate a deal
that led to voter approval. Enron then bought the naming rights to the
Astros' new home, Enron Field.

  Mr. Lay helped lead efforts to win voter approval of a new basketball
arena, now under construction. He has backed rail transit and other
measures to clean Houston's air.

  He and his wife, Linda, have been active in charities and have
supported political candidates.

  New model

  In reinventing itself into a $100 billion-a-year energy trader, Enron
created a business model that other energy companies have followed,
making Houston a leader in a new kind of commodities market.

  Enron, whose influence extends into the White House of President Bush,
is in the midst of adding to Houston's skyline, building a 40-story
building next door to the 50-story building it already occupies.

  Losing Mr. Lay's and Enron's leadership "would be a sizable blow,"
said Jim Kollaer, president of the Greater Houston Partnership, a
business-boosting group that includes the Chamber of Commerce. But "he
hasn't pulled back."

  "He has to be there to answer these questions. He's going to take time
to do that," Mr. Kollaer said. "But he's still functioning in a civic
regard."


