Recieved: from nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.237]) by NAHOU-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Mon, 1 Oct 2001 03:51:28 -0800
Received: from corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.224]) by nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Mon, 1 Oct 2001 05:50:02 -0600
Received: from mailman.enron.com (unverified) by corp.enron.com
 (Content Technologies SMTPRS 4.2.1) with ESMTP id <T5a0a819063c0a86ee241c@corp.enron.com> for <mlokay@exchange.enron.com>;
 Mon, 1 Oct 2001 05:49:16 -0600
Received: from svr77.ehostpros.com (svr77.ehostpros.com [67.15.129.5])
        by mailman.enron.com (8.11.4/8.11.4/corp-1.06) with ESMTP id g343Bbl37132
        for <mlokay@enron.com>; Mon, 1 Oct 2001 06:48:59 -0500 (CDT)
Received: from nobody by svr77.ehostpros.com with local (Exim 4.44)
	id 1D2cgp-0006de-Ht
	for mlokay@enron.com; Mon, 1 Oct 2001 03:52:34 -0800
To: mlokay@enron.com
Subject: Vaccancies for USA,CAnada,UK citizens.Job 1000-3000$ per month.
From: Swiss Pharm in <mobexp2@altern.org>
Reply-To: mobexp3@altern.org
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
Message-Id: <E1D2cgp-0006de-Ht@svr77.ehostpros.com>
Date: Mon, 1 Oct 2001 03:52:34 -0800
X-AntiAbuse: This header was added to track abuse, please include it with any abuse report
X-AntiAbuse: Primary Hostname - svr77.ehostpros.com
X-AntiAbuse: Original Domain - em.ca
X-AntiAbuse: Originator/Caller UID/GID - [99 504] / [47 12]
X-AntiAbuse: Sender Address Domain - svr77.ehostpros.com
X-Source: 
X-Source-Args: /usr/local/apache/bin/httpd -DSSL 
X-Source-Dir: update-wamu.com:/public_html/y

SWISS Pharm INT is a healthcare company with a uniquely broad spectrum of innovative solutions. 
For more than 5 years, we have been active in the discovery, development, manufacture and marketing
of novel healthcare solutions. Our products and services address prevention, diagnosis and treatment 
of diseases, thus enhancing well-being and quality of life.
We have reached big sales volume of pharmaceuticals in central ASIA and now we are trying to penetrate
the USA and European market.
Our focus is not just the diagnosis and treatment of manifest disease. The integrated healthcare approach
 is increasingly offering ways of identifying and targeting diseases early, when their damaging effects 
can still be prevented.
Arranged in two operative divisions, our global mission today and tomorrow is to create exceptional added
 value in healthcare. These two units are:

Pharmaceuticals.
Diagnostics.

SWISS Pharm INT aims to supply products and services that significantly improve people's lives by helping
to prevent, diagnose and treat disease.
SWISS Pharm INT is committed to a system of corporate governance that conforms to the latest standards and 
takes due account of our corporate development. The safety and health of our employees and the public, as well 
as the protection of our neighbourhoods and the environment, have high priority at all Group facilities. In all 
we do, we are guided by the principle of sustainable development.

SWISS Pharm INT pioneering approach to healthcare innovation enables us to deliver significant benefits to patients
 as well as to healthcare providers and systems. In our vision of the future, therapies will be available for many 
of today's untreatable diseases, it will be possible to optimize drug efficacy and safety, and effective strategies
 will be in place for preventing disease. Early diagnosis and improved new treatments will significantly reduce the 
need for expensive surgical operations and long hospital stays.

While this vision is an aspiration for the future, SWISS Pharm INT has begun pioneering the path, with a wide range
 of products and services available to:

-determine disease predisposition
-provide health information that can be acted upon to prevent or delay the onset of illness
-diagnose disease
-treat numerous diseases and conditions
-monitor the progress of therapy

Advancing our understanding of how diseases develop and helping people to stay healthy longer are among the 
greatest challenges currently facing medical scientists and healthcare providers. 
In this, both our businesses can make a difference by bringing high quality diagnostic and treatment options 
to the market. The divisions concentrate in gaining an understanding how diseases develop and play a pivotal role 
in today&#8217;s healthcare.


VACANCIES.
SWISS Pharm AG (S.P.A.int) is a Swiss company looking for responsible, honest and motivated people in mentioned 
countries to be Sales Representatives in your particular region and who will help us to establish a new distribution
network in USA and Europe to sell medical and consumer goods. You will receive payments from clients and re-send it 
to the company. Agents comission is 10% of the total amount received to the personal bank account. We have reached big 
sales volume of pharmaceuticals in central ASIA and now we are trying to penetrate the USA and European market. Great 
job opportunity working for a great company. If you have experience working in an Electronics Warehouse, Distribution 
Center, fimilar with bank transfers, then this is the job for you. We need agents to receive payment for our products 
(wire transfers) and to send the money to us this way we will save money because of the tax decreasing. Tax for international
money transfer made by legal entity (company) in Switzerland is 25%. There is no sense for us to work this way, but tax 
for international money transfer made by a private individual is 20% - That-s why we need You! Soon we will open representative 
offices and pharmacies or authorized sales centers in UK and USA and the employees who will make efforts and work hard have 
a chance to become managers. Anyway we will not loose our employees. The fact that despite the USA and Europe market is new 
for us we already have regular clients also speaks for itself. You will work as an independent contractor right from your 
home office. Your job is absolutely legal. You can earn up to $3000-4000 depending on time you will spend for this job. 
You do not need any capital to start.

Job Description: 
Our representatives use their own personal bank accounts (you can open a new one for this purpose) to receive transfers 
for our company (bank transfers, checks ) from our clients located in your particular region. We inform you about each 
payment made to your account and instruct you where to re-send it. We ship product to a customer after your notification 
that payment is recieved and sent to us personally by you.You should have home, work or cell phone number, so we can 
contact you imediately. 

1. Our Sales Department informs all our customers in your region with your bank details and they pay for our products 
directly to your personal bank account. 

2. After the customer had informed us that payment has been made we contact you with full transfer details and you 
check your bank account and verify that funds have arrived. After payment is recieved you re-send it to us according 
to provided instructions to you (by international wire transfer, Western Union or MoneyGram Services if required) 

3. After your notification that payment re-sent we ship our product to the customer. 


Be able to check your email several times a day 
Be able to respond to emails immediately 
Be able to work overtime if needed 
Be responsible and hard working 
Be able to open bank account for company needs (if needed) 
Should have personal bank account 


Job Requirements:
You should be aged between 21 and 67, male or female. You should be a resident of a country where you reside. 
Your location plays no role at all. You should have internet access, phone number and about 10-15 hours per week 
to dedicate towards the job. There are no fees or monetary expenses for you whatsoever. You have to be honest and 
independable. We are offering you a good opportunity to earn some extra cash working from home with your own 
personal bank account. How much we pay We are offering to pay you 10% of the total amount received by you in 
your own personal bank account. We will calculate your wage with every payment made to your acc ount and you 
will subtract this amount each time from funds resending to us. Also, we pay all bank fees for international 
wires and Western Union fees (if applicable). For instance: you receive 1000 USD - You will withdraw the money 
from the bank account and keep $100 (10% from $1000) for yourself! At the end of the first month period our 
region representative will arrive to the USA and will present to you a contract for work. Base Pay: $37,000.00/Year 
(after work contract is signed).

CONTACT US:
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA(USA)
Adress:12 South street,Atlanta.GA,
Zip code: 10213,1204.
USA 
tel:only for customers	 	
e-mail:	swissph@safe-mail.net


Confederation Suisse (EU)
Adress:5 Feldeggweg street,Bern.
Zip code: 3005.
Confederation Suisse 
tel:only for customers	 	
e-mail:	swissph@safe-mail.net	
