Received: from NAOMA-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com ([192.168.157.202]) by NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Thu, 20 Dec 2001 14:10:31 -0600
x-mimeole: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: RE: Angels are ....
Date: Thu, 20 Dec 2001 14:10:42 -0600
Message-ID: <ACC423240157794DB8147CBA9900C81C0321F3@NAOMA-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <ACC423240157794DB8147CBA9900C81C0321F3@NAOMA-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: Angels are ....
Thread-Index: AcGIkh7bhaBIhfRREdW8/QCQJ1dNmwA518ogAARXGtAAAQ1xMA==
From: "Dornan, Dari" <Dari.Dornan@ENRON.com>
To: "Lokey, Teb" <Teb.Lokey@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Dari.Dornan@ENRON.com

Thanks for including me on this.  How are you doing through all this?  I hope you have a happy holiday.  Dari

-----Original Message-----
From: Lokey, Teb 
Sent: Thursday, December 20, 2001 1:23 PM
To: Thompson, Debra; Culwell, Christi; Winckowski, Michele; Dornan,
Dari; Johnson, Alice; Porter, Diana; Schroeder, Maggie; Rivers, Cynthia;
Lichtenwalter, Blair; Kilmer III, Robert; Doll, Jeanette;
'cormanerb@cs.com'
Subject: FW: Angels are ....




-----Original Message-----
From: Doll, Jeanette 
Sent: Thursday, December 20, 2001 11:16 AM
To: 'Diana.Alvarado@grayelec.com'; Bridget Helfrich (E-mail); Buehler,
Craig; Ramirez, Pilar; Pavlou, Maria; Powers, Ken; Gilbert, Steve; Ray
Stelly (E-mail); Lokey, Teb; Moore, Jan; Powell, Don
Subject: FW: Angels are ....




Another tidbit to remind us that we see/hear Divinity all around us: 

Just remember, "Our God is an Awesome God!" 

READ This All the Way, and send it back please! 
This will give you the chills.....GOOD Chills! 

A young man had been to Wed. night Bible Study. The pastor had shared
about listening to God and obeying the Lord's voice. The young man
couldn't help but wonder, Does God still speak to people?" 

After service, he went out with some friends for coffee 
and pie, and they discussed the message. Several different ones talked
about how God had led them in different ways.

It was about ten o'clock when the young man started driving home.
Sitting in his car, he just began to pray, "God...If you still speak to
people speak to me. I will listen. I will do my best to obey." 

As he drove down the main street of his town, he had the strangest
thought to stop and buy a gallon of milk. He shook his head and said out
loud, "God is that you?"  He didn't get a reply and started on toward
home. 

But again, the thought, buy a gallon of milk. The young man thought
about Samuel and how he didn't recognize the voice of God, and how
little Samuel ran to Eli. "Okay, God, in case that is you, I will buy
the milk." It didn't seem like too hard a test of obedience. He could
always use the milk. He stopped and purchased the gallon of milk and
started off toward home. 

As he passed Seventh Street, he again felt the urge, "Turn down that
street." This is crazy he thought and drove on past the intersection.
Again, he felt that he should turn down Seventh Street. At the next
intersection, he turned back and headed down Seventh. Half jokingly, he
said out loud, "Okay, God, I will." 

He drove several blocks, when suddenly, he felt like he should stop.
He pulled over to the curb and looked around. He was in a
semi-commercial area of town. It wasn't the best but it wasn't the worst
of neighborhoods either. The businesses were closed and most of the
houses looked dark like the people were already in bed.

Again, he sensed something, "Go and give the milk to the people in the
house across the street." The young man looked at the house. It was dark
and it looked like the people were either gone or they were already
asleep. He started to open the door and then sat back in the car seat.
"Lord, this is insane. Those people are asleep and, if I wake them up,
they are going to be mad and I will look stupid." 

Again, he felt like he should go and give the milk. Finally, he opened
the door.   "Okay God, if this is you, I will go to the door and I will
give them the milk. If you want me to look like a crazy person, okay. I
want to be obedient. I guess that will count for something, but, if they
don't answer right away, I am out of here. 

He walked across the street and rang the bell. He could hear some noise
inside. A man's voice yelled out, "Who is it? What do you want?"   Then
the door opened before the young man could get away.    The man was
standing there in his jeans and t-shirt.  He looked like he just got out
of bed. He had a strange look on his face, and he didn't seem too happy
to have some stranger standing on his doorstep. "What is it?" The young
man thrust out the gallon of milk. "Here I brought this to you." 

The man took the milk and rushed down a hallway, speaking loudly in
Spanish. Then from down the hall came a woman carrying the milk toward
the kitchen. The man was following her holding a baby. The baby was
crying. The man had tears streaming down his face. The man began
speaking and half-crying, "We were just praying. We had some big bills
this month and we ran out of money. We didn't have any milk for our
baby. I was just praying and asking God to show me how to get some
milk." 

His wife in the kitchen yelled out, "I ask him to send an Angel with
some. Are you an Angel?"

The young man reached into his wallet and pulled out all the money he
had on him and put in the man's hand. He turned and walked back toward
his car and the tears were streaming down his face.   He knew that God
still answers prayers. 

This is a simple test... 

If you believe that God is alive and well, send this to at least ten
people and the person that sent it to you! 



