Received: from nahou-msmbx03v.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.41]) by NAHOU-MSMBX05V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.1600);
	 Tue, 7 Aug 2001 16:33:18 -0500
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4418.65
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: FW: EnTouch Newsletter
Date: Tue, 7 Aug 2001 16:33:18 -0500
Message-ID: <AECCD639E83D0540BA407A252A23E53D39891F@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: yes
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <AECCD639E83D0540BA407A252A23E53D39891F@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: EnTouch Newsletter
Thread-Index: AcEa2gnJCBf/3YbNEdWxFABQi+MJ2QErkj2g
From: "Grabstald, Kathie" <Kathie.Grabstald@ENRON.com>
To: "Taylor, Michael E" <Michael.E.Taylor@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Kathie.Grabstald@ENRON.com

Here is the latest version of EnTouch. Your name was added to the large distribution list for this week's issue. If you don't receive something on Thursday or Friday, please call me and I'll see what is going on.

Kathie

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Enron Announcements/Corp/Enron
Sent:	Wednesday, August 01, 2001 5:16 PM
To:	En Touch Newsletter List@ENRON
Subject:	EnTouch Newsletter


 

BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS

Enron Industrial Markets
In early July, the EIM Fundamentals Siebel Team launched Siebel Episode II: Siebel Express Enhancements.  Siebel Episode II added a number of new fields and views to the Siebel database, which is currently available to each of the over 150 traders, originators and senior management at EIM. Siebel provides these users with the ability to store all of their accounts, contacts, potential deals and activities in a common, shared repository.  In early August, Enron Freight Markets will follow EIM's lead and launch Siebel Episode II to their front-office personnel.  

Enron Global Strategic Sourcing, in collaboration with Enron Net Works, recently executed a two-year agreement with SkyTel Communications, Inc. to provide users with one- and two-way local and nationwide numeric/alphanumeric pagers, advanced messaging service devices, and encrypted remote e-mail services via Blackberry© enabled devices.

Under this agreement, Enron will also receive special discount incentives including, 50% discount on Blackberry©-enabled hardware purchases through year-end 2001, trade-in allowances on select Research in Motion (RIM) units through year-end 2001, upload and download of contact lists from select pc-compatible hardware to new RIM devices, customized training for hardware and services featured quarterly, and monthly service costs that will be billed at 50% of normal rates for a limited time.

Personal toll free numbers, personal voice mail, operator dispatched text messages, pin-to-pin messaging and text-to-voice and text-to-fax service options will be available on select devices, including Motorola T900 and P935.

EA-Office of the Chairman
The approval process initiated in 1998 for all meeting and event expenditures in excess of $5,000 has enabled Enron Americas to better assess the business value of events, accurately track our activities and save money.  These events include customer and employee meetings, and trade shows.  

EA has made some modifications to the process, which are described here.

The $5,000 threshold remains in effect for all customer events.  However, the threshold for approval for employee meetings and events has been lowered to $500, and some additional requirements must be met prior to approval.

Please be sure to follow the procedures described below for all meetings and events, so we can continue to successfully manage these events.

1) Prior to making any commitments to customers or vendors, all customer events with anticipated costs in excess of $5,000, and all employee events with anticipated costs in excess of $500 must be reviewed by the Enron Americas Public Relations department and approved by the Enron Americas Office of the Chairman
2) The PR department will handle the site search and hotel contract negotiations for all such events.  Once this is completed, the PR department will work with you to plan and produce your event in its entirety; or they can provide as much or as little assistance as you require. The PR department will be responsible for helping you achieve the best value for your program and EA.

Additionally, the PR department can assist in the procurement of tickets for various local sporting events and concerts.

If you have any questions regarding this process, would like assistance planning an event, or need tickets for a Houston event, please contact Dorie Hitchcock in the PR department at (713) 853-6978.


IN THE NEWS

NEW YORK, July 17 (Reuters) - As most players in a shrinking pool of online energy trading platforms struggle to stay alive, leader EnronOnline has a simple philosophy: If it ain't broke, don't fix it.

The Internet arm of the energy marketing and trading giant Enron Corp., EnronOnline predicts it will increase its volume and says it can coexist with the IntercontinentalExchange (ICE), the chief executive of Enron Networks told Reuters on Tuesday.

The innovative company is always evaluating its business environment, ready to remold itself according to market demands, but it is not pursing mergers or acquisition for now, according to Greg Piper.


UNITED WAY 2001
United Way Campaign:  Stay tuned...Enron kicks-off the company-wide United Way campaign on Monday, August 6.  It ends Friday, August 17.  EWS is shooting for 100% participation in this year's on-line campaign.   
Days of Caring: The United Way "Days of Caring" are August 6-10. Volunteers are rapidly signing up for the EWS day scheduled for August 10. The 2001 theme is "Building Houston's Future" and EWS is sponsoring the Center for the Retarded.  There is a competition between the four Enron companies; EWS, Enron Corp., ETS, and EES to see which one provides the most volunteers.  Sign up and receive your Day of Caring T-shirt at the Infozone located in the Enron Building Plaza from July 30 to August 3.
Everyone in EWS who participates in the Days of Caring will have their name entered into a drawing to win one of five American Express Gift Certificates.
To volunteer: 
Online registration:  http://cr.enron.com/cr-cgi-bin/view_volops.pl  
Or contact an EWS Days of Caring Committee Member:

Julie Clyatt at ext. 3-3256;  Cheryl Lindeman at ext. 5-2849; Tom Myers at ext. 3-0475; Tammie 
Schoppe at ext.3-4220;  Philip Conn at ext. 5-8181; Marcus Edmonds at ext. 3-4243;  Marilyn 
Oliver at ext. 5-6122    

Day of Caring Volunteer Information
Transportation:  Shuttles will be provided for all projects if needed.  Loading and unloading of buses will be on Ruthvan street, between the Enron Building and the Continental Building.  Morning shifts will leave at 8:15am and return to Enron at 11:30am.  Afternoon shifts will leave at 1:00pm and return at 4:00pm.

Food:  Doughnuts and juice will be available to all morning volunteers.  Enron will also provide boxed lunches at noon at the Enron building. For those volunteers staying all day at their site, we will send lunches on the 1:00pm bus.  

Water:  Water and ice will be provided at the Enron Building before the buses leave.  Volunteers are encouraged to bring coolers from home to load water.

T-shirts:  T-shirts can be picked up at EB1638e.  T-shirts will also be available while loading the busses.

Materials:  Enron and United Way will provide any materials needed for your project.  (i.e. paint, brushes, dirt, plants, books, etc).  Volunteers are encouraged to bring their own gloves and other items for their comfort (i.e. paint shirts, caps, bug spray, sunscreen, kneeling pads, etc).  Talk to your site leader to find out about other tools that are needed.

Showers:  Enron's Body Shop has provided showers for all Day of Caring volunteers.  Waivers will be available on the bus ride to the Enron Building.  Wear your shirt and sign in at the registration desk at The Body Shop.

United Way Challenge:  To compete against the other business units, EWS must create a team of 7-10 people to build a model of Enron's attributes: Smart, Innovative, Bold, Ambitious, and United.  You will be provided with the building materials and you will have a total of 45 minutes to work along with your teammates to get your model completed.  The primary building material will be Legos.  After the competition, the Legos will be donated to local non-profit childcare centers.
On Friday, August 10 at 11:00 am, the teams will meet to begin construction and they have 45 minutes to complete their model of Enron's attributes.  At 12:00 pm, Ken Lay will host the judging competition with the winner decided using "The Applause Meter."
Each team must consist of 7 to 10 members from their business unit and must have at least 3 executives (i.e., Directors or above).  The model must be freestanding.  And, although Legos will be provided as the primary building tool, other materials may be used, so use your imagination.
Please call or e-mail Julie Clyatt if you are interested in participating.  She can be reached at ext. 3-3256. 

WELCOME
New Hires
EGM  - Javier Lozano, Tim Nash, Brad Ross, Stephen Wheeler, Michael Taylor, Derek Wilson
EIM   - Morela Hernandez, Milagros Daetz, Ayesha Kanji, Laura Bosek, Fariha Haque, Tonya Body, Jim Childress, Jess Emerson, 

Transfers (to or within)
ENA - Gary Bryan


NUGGETS & NOTES

Travel tip of the week:
ClickTrip.  Enron employees can make all travel arrangements on-line, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  Using ClickTrip will automatically provide you with Enron's preferred rates making it easier to reduce your travel costs.  ClickTrip will be rolled out to all business units with the iBuyit platform - if you need to be set up prior to that time, please call or email Tracy Ramsey.

Houston Energy Seminar
The producer/industrial derivative mid-marketing group will be hosting a Houston Energy Seminar at the Four Seasons Hotel on August 9th.  This is a great event for current and prospective customers.  Topics will include a Power Outlook for ERCOT, Natural Gas Outlook, Crude & Products Outlook and Hedging Strategies.  Please RSVP to Laura Pena at 713.853.5376.  Future seminars will be in Atlanta and Denver - dates to be announced soon.  For more information, call Lucy Ortiz at 713.853.3238. Please click on the link below for the Houston Invitation.
     http://fundamentals.enron.com/Official%20Houston%20Invitation.pdf

EnronOnline Figures
Below are the latest figures for EnronOnline as of July 30, 2001.
	?	Total Life to Date Transactions > 1,265,000
	?	Life to Date Notional Value of Transactions > $735 billion

Congratulations to Robert & Peggy Sammon, manager with EGM Financial Operations, on the birth of a son, Joshua Bryce Sammon. He was born on June 2, 2001 at 11:04 AM, weighing 8 lbs. 6 oz.

Congratulations to Mauricio Ortiz & Patricia Anderson, sr. specialist with EL Accounting and sr. specialist with EGM Financial Operations on the birth of a daughter, Elizabeth Paige Ortiz.  She was born on June 25, 2001 at 4:00 PM, weighing 6 lbs. 12 oz.

Congratulations to Jose & Olga Herrera, sr. specialist with EGM Financial Operations, on the birth of a son, Ethan Andrew Herrera. He was born on June 28, 2001 at 2:04 PM, weighing 7 lbs. 15 oz. 


Sam Enochian, of Enron Freight Markets (Origination), and his USA Rugby Team won the Silver Medal in Israel at the Maccabiah Games. They played a series of four games with other teams from South Africa and Israel.   Sam has been playing Rugby for 6 years and is in the "second row" position.  Sam and the USA Rugby Team were involved in several charitable events and functions during the visit.

LEGAL STUFF
The information contained in this newsletter is confidential and proprietary to Enron Corp. and its subsidiaries.  It is intended for internal use only and should not be disclosed.



<Embedded Paintbrush Picture></DIV>

