Received: from nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.237]) by napdx-msmbx03p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Wed, 17 Apr 2002 02:19:48 -0800
Received: from NAHOU-MSMSW04P.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.224]) by nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Wed, 17 Apr 2002 04:18:23 -0600
Received: from mailman.enron.com (unverified) by NAHOU-MSMSW04P.corp.enron.com
 (Content Technologies SMTPRS 4.2.5) with ESMTP id <T5a0a081643c0a86ee241c@NAHOU-MSMSW04P.corp.enron.com> for <kholst@exchange.enron.com>;
 Wed, 17 Apr 2002 04:18:22 -0600
Received: from chemeng.chmt.wits.ac.za (bl5-46-25.dsl.telepac.pt [82.154.46.25])
        by mailman.enron.com (8.11.4/8.11.4/corp-1.06) with ESMTP id g343Bbl93527
        for <KHOLST@enron.com>; Wed, 17 Apr 2002 05:18:16 -0500 (CDT)
Message-ID: <JIEIOIPBMCDLMJDMNHEDKIIMHCAB.terrell_d.wills_ah@ccopley.demon.co.uk>
From: "Terrell D. Wills" <terrell_d.wills_ah@ccopley.demon.co.uk>
To: KHOLST@enron.com
Subject: High Octane Stock
Date: Wed, 17 Apr 2002 10:42:26 +0000
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable

Date: Tue, 16 Apr 2002 19:55:51 -0400   Show All Headers        
From:   Cormega   [Add | Block]    
To:   pking@ziplip.com   
Subject:   new creative   

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Major Breaking News Alert After the Close 
Diamant Film Inc. (OTCBB:DIAAF) 
The World's First Plasticizer-Free Stretch Film Based 
on Polystyrene and the First Food Wrap Film that is 
Environmentally Friendly and Recyclable. Diamant(TM) 
Film has Recently Received the ECO Logo Certified by 
the Environmental Choice(M) Program. (Source: News 
6/3/05) 

Volume Friday: 2.88 million shares 
Friday's Close: $.028 

Is This One Ready to Explode Higher Monday? How Will 
it React To Today's News? Good Luck and Succesful 
Trading.. 


Press Release Source: Diamant Art Corporation 


Diamant Film Approved For All Foods by Swiss and 
European Union Governing Bodies 

Friday June 10, 4:36 pm ET 


TORONTO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--June 10, 2005--Diamant Art 
Corporation (OTCBB:DIAAF - News) is pleased to 
announce that, through its wholly owned subsidiary 
Diamant Film Inc. and in conjunction with its Swiss 
manufacturer, the Diamant (TM) Foodwrap Film HB was 
tested employing the methods from the Swiss Foodstuff 
Manual and accordingly to the European Union 
guidelines, with the result being that Diamant (TM) 
film "corresponds to the currently applicable legal 
requirements regarding food hygiene for contact with 
aqueous, acidic, alcoholic and oily or fatty food 
stuffs". This approval validates Diamant's claims that 
Diamant (TM) film can be used for all kinds of food. 

Diamant Film Inc. CEO Stefan Gudmundsson states, "I am 
very pleased to have our product validated by the 
Swiss and European Union governing bodies as they 
incorporate some of the toughest standards in the 
world for foodwraps. In conjunction with our ECO logo 
certification by the Environmental Choice(M) Program 
which is North America's leading benchmark for 
environmentally responsible products, we feel that 
Diamant (TM) film is one of the best foodwrap films in 
the world with the added benefit of being 
environmentally friendly. We feel that these qualities 
will translate into major product orders in the near 
future." 


About Diamant Art Corporation 

Diamant Art Corporation, through its wholly owned 
subsidiary Diamant Film Inc., has secured a ten year 
agreement with Diamant Plastics Corporation for the 
exclusive marketing and distribution rights in the 
United States, Canada, Mexico and the Bahamas to 
Diamant (TM) film, a non-PVC food stretch film. 
Diamant (TM) film is the world's first 
plasticizer-free stretch film based on polystyrene and 
the first food wrap film that is environmentally 
friendly and recyclable. Diamant (TM) film has 
recently received the ECO logo certified by the 
Environmental Choice(M) Program. The Environmental 
Choice(M) Program is North America's leading benchmark 
of environmentally responsible products and services. 
Diamant (TM) film has successfully met the criteria 
for both the environmental and performance standards. 

Safe Harbor 

This media release may contain forward-looking 
statements regarding but not limited to management, 
market potential, distributor success, market size, 
international sales, marketing, future events and 
performance of the Company which involve risks and 
uncertainties that could materially affect actual 
results. Investors should refer to documents that the 
Company intends to file with the SEC for a description 
of certain factors that could cause actual results to 
vary from current expectations and the forward-looking 
statements contained in this media release. 



Please Watch This One Trade. Is Your Heart Pumping on 
This One? These little stocks can surprise in a big 
way sometimes.... 

_______________________________ 

Information within this email contains "forward 
looking statements" within the meaning of 
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 
21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934. Any statements that express or involve 
discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, 
beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, goals, 
assumptions or future events or performance are not 
statements of historical fact and may be "forward 
looking statements. 
"Forward looking statements are based on expectations, 
estimates and projections at the time 
the statements are made that involve a number of risks 
and uncertainties which could cause 
actual results or events to differ materially from 
those presently anticipated. Forward 
looking statements in this action may be identified 
through the use of words such as 
"projects", "foresee", "expects", "will," 
"anticipates," "estimates," "believes," 
"understands" or that by statements indicating certain 
actions "may," "could," or "might" 
occur. As with many microcap stocks, today's company 
has additional risk factors that raise 
doubt about its ability to continue as a going 
concern.Those factors include, but are not 
limited to: a limited operating history, a nominal 
cash position, nominal revenue in its most recent 
quarter, an accumulated deficit since its inception, a 
negative net worth, a going concern opinion from its 
auditor, a failure to make maintenance payments on it 
US patents, management believes it will not be able 
to complete its audited statments which will, if not 
rectified, eventually lead to a delisting of the stock 
from the Bulletin Board. All of the 
assets of the company are pledged as collateral on a 
note the company is in default on. Foreclosure could 
force bankruptcy or liquidation of the company. The 
company is going to 
need financing. If that financing does not occur,the 
company may not be able to continue as a going 
concern in which case you could lose your entire 
investment. Other risks and 
uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the 
ability of the Company to complete its business 
plan,reliance on key personnel, market conditions, the 
general acceptance of the Company's products and 
technologies, competitive factors, timing, and other 
risks associated 
with their business. The publisher of this newsletter 
does not represent that the information contained in 
this message states all material facts or does not 
omit a material fact 
necessary to make the statements therein not 
misleading.All information provided within this email 
pertaining to investing, stocks, securities must be 
understood as information provided 
and not investment advice. The publisher of this 
newsletter advises all readers and subscribers to seek 
advice from a registered professional securities 
representative before deciding to trade in stocks 
featured within this email. None of the material 
within this report shall be construed as any kind of 
investment advice or solicitation.Many of these 
companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. You can lose 
all your money by investing in this stock. The 
publisher of this newsletter is not a re-gistered 
in-vestment advis0r. Subscribers should not view 
information herein as legal, tax, accounting or 
investment advice. Any reference to past 
performance(s) of companies are specially selected to 
be referenced based on the favorable performance of 
these companies. You would need perfect timing to 
acheive the results in the examples given. There 
can be no assurance of that happening. Remember, as 
always, past performance is never 
indicative of future results and a thorough due 
diligence effort, including a review of a company's 
filings when available, should be completed prior to 
investing. Read the filings now, right now, before you 
invest. In compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, 
Section17(b),The publisher of this newsletter is 
contracted to receive sixty thousand dollars from a 
third 
party, not an officer, director or affiliate 
shareholder for the circulation of this report. Be 
aware of an inherent conflict of interest resulting 
from such compensation due to the fact that this is a 
paid advertisement and is not without bias.The party 
that paid us has a position in 
the stock they will sell at anytime without notice. 
This could have a negative impact on the price of the 
stock, causing you to lose money. All factual 
information in this report was gathered from public 
sources, including but not limited to Company Websites 
and Company Press Releases. The publisher of this 
newsletter believes this information to be reliable 
but can 
make no guarantee as to its accuracy or completeness. 
Use of the material within this email constitutes your 
acceptance of these terms. 

 

