Received: from NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.40]) by NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Tue, 4 Sep 2001 14:13:31 -0500
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
Content-Class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: RE: Head of Regulatory Agency Ramirez comments to the press
Date: Tue, 4 Sep 2001 14:13:30 -0500
Message-ID: <7F1D7F2194B0E34989EC0997380B668310732D@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <7F1D7F2194B0E34989EC0997380B668310732D@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: Head of Regulatory Agency Ramirez comments to the press
Thread-Index: AcE1YDiFi6bEAaFSEdWxGABQi+MJ2QAFG2Ig
From: "Vicens, Emilio" <Emilio.Vicens@ENRON.com>
To: "Levy, Alberto" <Alberto.Levy@ENRON.com>,
	"Caranti, Guido" <Guido.Caranti@ENRON.com>,
	"Gerstandt, Neal" <neal.gerstandt@ENRON.com>
Cc: "Shapiro, Richard" <Richard.Shapiro@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Emilio.Vicens@ENRON.com

Alberto,

If the meeting with the Governor is on for Thursday, lets try to have a meeting with Rafael on Friday. Could you please try to arrange the meeting for both of us?, let me know please.

With regard to majority stakes, we have indicated in several ocassions that Enron would be more than willing to increase PDVSA"s (in this case the government) stake to a higher number. So, I don't really believe this should be a showstopper for Jose. On the other hand, although we will have to see the by-laws and shareholders agreements to be precise, a 33% stakes gives you nothing more than a simple majority. Still, Shell and Exxon together clearly control the venture. It is also stupid to say that "not in a single country in the world.......". How about Trinidad for example. I'm not sure if he is referring to the Governments or companies?.

We can clear this up in our meeting with him. Let me know if and when is he available to meet.

Thansk a lot,

Emilio

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Levy, Alberto  
Sent:	Tuesday, September 04, 2001 11:27 AM
To:	Vicens, Emilio; Caranti, Guido; Gerstandt, Neal
Cc:	Shapiro, Richard
Subject:	Head of Regulatory Agency Ramirez comments to the press

Greetings,
Yesterday Rafael Ramirez, head of the gas regulator ENAGAS, said that PDVSA will hold a majority stake in the Venezuelan LNG project (PDVSA 33%, Shell 30%, ExxonMobil 29% and Mitsubishi 8%). The partners already signed an MOU reflecting these proportions. The increment is because of a requirement in the draft of the Hydrocarbons Law. He justifies this requirement, based on the "strategic characteristics" of the commodity, saying that "not in a single country in the world, the owner of the resource has a minority stake." Perhaps this is the showstopper to the Jose LNG project. 
Moreover, Ramirez adds that "in a particular moment in time there were doubts about the feasibility of serving both domestic and export markets, but a multidisciplinary committee approved the project." This clears the gas deficit issue.
Below you'll fing the news clip (in Spanish, sorry).
I suggest having a meeting with Ramirez to determine if this is the issue. Please advise. Regards,
ALF

Martes, 4 de septiembre de 2001 
 
PDVSA será socio mayoritario en Venezuela GNL  
 
Entre los detalles que afina el alto Gobierno con respecto al proyecto Venezuela Gas Natural Licuado se encuentra el incremento de la participación accionaria de Petróleos de Venezuela prevista en el anteproyecto de Ley de Hidrocarburos . 
El argumento lo explica Rafael Ramírez, presidente de Enegas, quien indica que "el Ministerio aprobó que vamos a ir a una mayoría accionaria en el proyecto (...) en ningún país del mundo, el dueño de los recursos va con participación minoritaria". 
De acuerdo al Memorándum de Entendimiento firmado entre los socios, PDVSA cuenta con 33% de las acciones, seguido de Shell con 30%, ExxonMobil 29% y Mitsubishi 8%.  

Caracas, martes 04 de septiembre, 2001 
 GAS /// Ejecutivo afina últimos detalles 
Pdvsa será socio mayor en Venezuela GNL    
  

Rafael Ramírez informó avances de acuerdo binacional con Noruega 
 
Para Enegas el carácter estratégico del gas obliga a aumentar la participación de Pdvsa 


PATRICIA VENTURA NICOLAS 

EL UNIVERSAL 

Entre los detalles que afina el alto Gobierno con respecto al proyecto Venezuela Gas Natural Licuado se encuentra el incremento de la participación accionaria de Petróleos de Venezuela prevista en el anteproyecto de Ley de Hidrocarburos. El argumento lo explica Rafael Ramírez, presidente de Enegas, quien indica que 'el Ministerio aprobó que vamos a ir a una mayoría accionaria en el proyecto (...) en ningún país del mundo, el dueño de los recursos va con participación minoritaria'. De acuerdo al Memorándum de Entendimiento firmado entre los socios, Pdvsa cuenta con 33% de las acciones, seguido de Shell con 30%, ExxonMobil 29% y Mitsubishi 8%. 
'El gas va a ser estratégico, es la energía del futuro. No vemos razón por qué si tenemos la magnitud de reservas que tenemos. Si tenemos la operadora tan buena que tenemos, tenemos que ir en minoría accionaria', comentó Ramírez, ratificando la tasa completa de 20% en las regalías establecida en el marco jurídico. Aunque aún se siguen afinando ciertos detalles, el proyecto Venezuela GNL tiene claro su futuro como exportador. En algún momento se dudó sobre la factibilidad de atender ambos mercados (doméstico e internacional), pero un comité multidisciplinario otorgó el visto bueno. 
Como parte de este proyecto e íntimamente relacionado con el desarrollo de la Plataforma Deltana, se adelanta la firma de un acuerdo con el Gobierno noruego para compartir experiencias costa afuera, tras la visita de una delegación venezolana a la nación europea. 'La gerencia de Diego Uzcátegui en Pdvsa ha identificado oportunidades de negocio para el sector nacional de más de 50% de los requerimientos que allí se necesitarán (...) Noruega tiene una experiencia excelente en apalancamiento del sector privado a través de sus inversiones', indicó Ramírez.  

