Recieved: from nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.237]) by NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Tue, 4 Sep 2001 19:44:34 -0500
Received: from corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.228]) by nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Tue, 4 Sep 2001 19:44:34 -0500
Received: from mailman.enron.com (unverified) by corp.enron.com
 (Content Technologies SMTPRS 4.2.1) with ESMTP id <T55cb28d9dfc0a86ee4588@corp.enron.com> for <jdasovic@exchange.enron.com>;
 Tue, 4 Sep 2001 19:44:32 -0500
Received: from haas.berkeley.edu (haasb.Haas.Berkeley.EDU [128.32.67.113])
	by mailman.enron.com (8.11.4/8.11.4/corp-1.06) with ESMTP id f850iVU09227
	for <jdasovic@enron.com>; Tue, 4 Sep 2001 19:44:31 -0500 (CDT)
Received: (from majordom@localhost)
	by haas.berkeley.edu (8.11.2/8.11.2) id f850e5U12355
	for eveningmba-outgoing; Tue, 4 Sep 2001 17:40:05 -0700 (PDT)
X-Authentication-Warning: haas.berkeley.edu: majordom set sender to owner-eveningmba@haas.berkeley.edu using -f
Received: (from majordom@localhost)
	by haas.berkeley.edu (8.11.2/8.11.2) id f850dMI12124
	for haasnewswire-outgoing; Tue, 4 Sep 2001 17:39:22 -0700 (PDT)
X-Authentication-Warning: haas.berkeley.edu: majordom set sender to owner-haasnewswire@haas.berkeley.edu using -f
Received: from benson.haas.berkeley.edu (haas-s550011.Haas.Berkeley.EDU [128.32.70.139])
	by haas.berkeley.edu (8.11.2/8.11.2) with ESMTP id f850dKj12116
	for <haasnewswire@haas.berkeley.edu>; Tue, 4 Sep 2001 17:39:20 -0700 (PDT)
Message-Id: <5.0.0.25.2.20010904173042.0188e958@haas.berkeley.edu>
X-Sender: haasnews@haas.berkeley.edu
X-Mailer: QUALCOMM Windows Eudora Version 5.0
Date: Tue, 04 Sep 2001 17:39:19 -0700
To: haasnewswire@haas.berkeley.edu
From: Haas NewsWire <haasnews@Haas.Berkeley.EDU>
Subject: Social Venture Competition Expands into New National
  Partnership 
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: multipart/alternative;
	boundary="=====================_29492748==_.ALT"
Precedence: bulk
Sender: owner-eveningmba@Haas.Berkeley.EDU
Reply-To: Haas NewsWire <haasnews@Haas.Berkeley.EDU>
Return-Path: owner-eveningmba@haas.berkeley.edu

Haas NewsWire
September 4, 2001

----------
CONTENTS
    * Social Venture Competition Expands into New National Partnership
    * Blue Martini CEO Zweben to Give Keynote at 2001 Knowledge Forum
    * Michael Katz to Serve as Deputy Assistant Attorney General for 
Economic Analysis
    * Leading Edge: The Future Comes to Haas
    * The First of Six New Faculty Profiles: Terrence Hendershott Joins the 
Manufacturing and Information Technology Group
    * Haas CEO Exchange to Air on PBS in September
    * Diane Dimeff Heads for Colorado as Assistant Dean for MBA Programs at 
CU Boulder
    * The Summer 2001 Issue of the California Management Review is Available
    * Haas in the News
    * Happening at Haas
    * Haas Celebrations
    ----------
SOCIAL VENTURE COMPETITION EXPANDS INTO NEW NATIONAL PARTNERSHIP
The Haas School of Business and Columbia Business School have formed a 
joint partnership with The Goldman Sachs Foundation to expand the Haas 
Social Venture Competition into the National Social Venture Competition. 
The competition invites aspiring entrepreneurs to develop plans for 
businesses that have a clear, quantifiable social return as well as a 
healthy financial bottom line.

The National Social Venture Competition originated in 1999 as a 
student-organized social venture competition at the Haas School of 
Business. In the past few years, the competition has attracted more than 
100 teams from business schools across the United States and Europe.  The 
new partnership with Columbia Business School and The Goldman Sachs 
Foundation will expand the competition's reach and scale.

The Goldman Sachs Foundation will underwrite the competition with a gift of 
$1.5 million to help build a national platform for social entrepreneurship. 
"This innovative program is an important milestone in the social enterprise 
field and presents a unique opportunity to advocate high quality 
entrepreneurship education on a national scale," said Stephanie Bell-Rose, 
president of The Goldman Sachs Foundation.  "The program underscores the 
Foundation's mission of supporting educational excellence by encouraging 
outstanding students to develop the tools that help them become the global 
leaders of tomorrow."

"The National Social Venture Competition reflects the growing commitment of 
business leaders and entrepreneurs to foster profitable activities that 
address major social challenges, such as protecting the environment, 
preventing disease, and improving educational outcomes," said Laura Tyson, 
dean of the Haas School of Business. "Haas MBA students have done an 
outstanding job in launching a business plan competition to promote 
socially responsible business ventures. Our new partnership with Columbia 
University's business school and The Goldman Sachs Foundation will increase 
public awareness of these issues and encourage business students to employ 
the tools of business to create positive social change."

Throughout the year, the entrepreneurship centers of the two business 
schools will coordinate with The Goldman Sachs Foundation to organize and 
promote national events in the San Francisco Bay Area and New York.  The 
Eugene M. Lang Center for Entrepreneurship at Columbia Business School will 
host an inaugural symposium on October 5 in New York City.  The symposium 
will feature a public dialogue with leaders in the social entrepreneurship 
arena to explore the growing demand and marketplace expectations for social 
ventures.

Throughout the year, both schools will host additional events to encourage 
participation and evaluate submissions. Mentoring workshops will take place 
at Columbia Business School and the Haas School with prominent investors 
and alumni helping teams to perfect their business plans and presentations. 
The teams' executive summaries are due on January 18, 2002.

The 2001/2002 national competition finals, hosted by the Haas School's 
Lester Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation, will take place at UC 
Berkeley on April 5-6, 2002.

"This unique and powerful partnership reflects Columbia's commitment to 
supporting entrepreneurship as a vehicle for social change," remarked Meyer 
Feldberg, dean of Columbia Business School.  "Tomorrow's business leaders 
must grasp more than convention; they must also be prepared to develop and 
steer businesses of all sizes and types through a global economy that 
demands consideration not only of profit and shareholder value, but also of 
broader human interests."

Teams in this year's competition can look to past participants in the Haas 
Social Venture Competition for inspiration in launching social 
ventures.  Previous participants who have gone on to establish businesses 
include:

+ Sea Power & Associates (www.seapower.cc), winner of the 2001 Haas Social 
Venture Competition, harnesses ocean wave power to produce electricity for 
coastal communities in the Pacific.

+Aprotea (www.aprotea.com) makes biochips to enhance drug discovery and won 
a prize for best management team in 2001.

+Prisma Microfinance (www.prismamicrofinance.com) provides investor-funded 
micro-loans in developing countries and won a prize for the best analysis 
of its social return on investment.

+Ripple Effects (www.rippleeffects.com), a winner of the 2000 competition, 
has already won nine major national product awards for its learning software.
----------
BLUE MARTINI CEO ZWEBEN TO GIVE KEYNOTE AT 2001 KNOWLEDGE FORUM
The fifth annual UC Berkeley Forum on Knowledge and the Firm will explore 
"New Patterns of Management in the Knowledge Economy" in the Arthur 
Andersen Auditorium on September 21. Leading thinkers and practitioners in 
the field of knowledge management will discuss the new patterns of 
management that are emerging as companies experiment and adapt different 
ways to beat their competition.

The Knowledge Forum is organized annually by the Institute of Management, 
Organization, and Innovation (IMIO) at the Haas School. This event is open 
to faculty, students, staff, alumni, and members of the public. The 
registration fee will be waived for faculty and UC Berkeley students. 
Students need to register by September 14.

The keynote address will be given by Monte Zweben, chairman, president, and 
CEO of Blue Martini Software, which helps companies understand, target, and 
interact with their customers and business partners. Prior to founding Blue 
Martini, Zweben was vice president and general manager of PeopleSoft's 
manufacturing industry unit. In 1992 he co-founded Red Pepper Software 
Company, and was CEO, president, and chairman.

Dean Laura Tyson will give the opening remarks, followed by three sessions 
of panelists featuring Ikujiro Nonaka, Xerox Distinguished Professor in 
Knowledge; David Teece, Mitsubishi Bank Professor of International Business 
and Finance and director of IMIO; Susan DeSanti, director, Office of Policy 
Planning, FTC; Seiji Horibuchi, president, VIZ Communications (Pokeman 
USA); and Saburo Kobayashi, general manager, Corporate Planning, Honda.

For registration information, please visit 
http://groups.haas.berkeley.edu/imio/knowledge/index2001.htm.
----------
MICHAEL KATZ TO SERVE AS DEPUTY ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR ECONOMIC 
ANALYSIS
Michael Katz, the Edward J. and Mollie Arnold Professor of Business 
Administration, has been appointed the deputy assistant attorney general 
for economic analysis in the Antitrust Division of the Department of 
Justice. As deputy assistant attorney general, Katz will supervise all 
economic analysis within the Antitrust Division and direct the division's 
Economic Analysis Group.

"Like the stereotypical economist, I look at Michael's appointment from two 
perspectives," says Ben Hermalin, associate dean of academic affairs. "On 
the one hand, I can't think of a Haas faculty member who'd be harder to 
lose for a year or two than Michael. On the other hand, I can't think of an 
economist I'd trust more to advise the nation on antitrust matters than 
Michael. I just hope the current administration has sufficient sense to 
listen to Michael and take his advice seriously."

Since 1987, Katz has served as a professor at the Haas School of 
Business.  In addition to researching on competitive strategy in systems 
markets, vertical integration, cooperative research and development, and 
antitrust in high-tech industries, he also directs the school's Center for 
Telecommunications and Digital Convergence. In 1989 and 1993, he was 
awarded the Earl F. Cheit Outstanding Teaching Award.

 From 1994 to 1996, Katz served as Chief Economist at the Federal 
Communications Commission, where he was responsible for integrating 
economic analysis into all aspects of Commission policy making. He 
formulated and implemented regulatory policies for all industries under the 
FCC's jurisdiction, including cable and broadcast television and local, 
long distance, and wireless telephony. In 1996 he was recognized with the 
FCC chairman's Special Achievement Award for his excellence in service at 
the commission.

He graduated summa cum laude from Harvard University in 1978, where he was 
awarded a prize as the top graduate in economics. He received his Ph.D. 
from Oxford University in 1982. A frequent lecturer and author of numerous 
articles on antitrust and consumer issues, Katz is also co-editor of the 
California Management Review and the Journal of Economics and Management 
Strategy.

"Michael Katz is a leading scholar with extensive experience in issues 
important to the Antitrust Division," said Charles A. James, assistant 
attorney general for antitrust. "His keen insight will be of great 
advantage to the department as we work to protect competition in today's 
global economy. We are privileged to have him join us."

Carl Shapiro, the Transamerica Professor of Business Strategy and director 
of the Institute of Business and Economics Research (IBER), was the deputy 
assistant attorney general for Economics in the Antitrust Division from 
1995 to 1996.
----------
LEADING EDGE: THE FUTURE COMES TO HAAS
This year's Leading Edge Conference, titled "@ the intersection of 
business, technology, and leadership," will bring heavy hitters from the 
business and technology sectors to Haas to discuss the future of their 
industry. Scheduled for September 21 and 22, the Leading Edge Conference 
has traditionally been one of the largest of the student-run conferences at 
Haas.

This year the conference will have 15 panel discussions with over 70 of the 
most influential minds in technology and business today, the EdgeXpo 
technology fair, and the opportunity to network and drop resumes with some 
of the top technology firms in the industry who will be making special 
appearances on campus for this event only.

As part of the keynote schedule this year, the organizers are debuting the 
Edge Futurists' Forum -- a keynote discussion session about the future of 
technology between industry innovators from Sun Microsystems, Xerox Parc, 
and the Institute for the Future.  This event includes distinguished 
visionaries such as John Gage, chief science officer of Sun Microsystems, 
and will be hosted by Business 2.0 President Ned Desmond. Brian Bogosian, 
president and CEO of Visto Corporation, will be the closing keynote speaker 
on Saturday evening.

For more information on the conference or to register, please 
visit  www.theleadingedge.org.
----------
THE FIRST OF SIX NEW FACULTY PROFILES: TERRENCE HENDERSHOTT JOINS THE 
MANUFACTURING AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY GROUP
Terrence Hendershott has joined the Haas faculty as an assistant professor 
of manufacturing and information technology.

Hendershott researches the information technology behind electronic stock 
markets. His previous position was as the Xerox Assistant Professor of 
Computers & Information Systems at the William E. Simon School of Business 
Administration at the University of Rochester.

Hendershott earned his bachelors in mathematics and statistics at Miami 
University. He spent several years in industry, first as a senior analyst 
at Andersen Consulting then as an associate at Cornerstone Research. He 
went on to earn his Ph.D. in operations, information, and technology at the 
Graduate School of Business at Stanford University in 1999.

In his dissertation at Stanford, Hendershott created a theoretical model of 
how electronic trading systems compete with stock exchanges. The largest 
electronic trading systems are electronic communications networks (ECNs), 
which are used for 30 to 40% of NASDAQ trades each day.

Hendershott is now looking at the impact that ECNs have had on stock 
trading. This includes the expansion of trading outside the normal trading 
day, the cost of trading using ECNs, and how the use of ECNs affects price 
discovery. "While the use of ECNs has grown dramatically since the mid-90s, 
unless there is some structural change in trading behavior, I don't think 
we will see 24-hour trading anytime soon," says Hendershott.

As a sideline to this work, Hendershott collaborates with his father, 
Patric, who is a professor of property economics and finance at the 
University of Aberdeen in Scotland, and his brother, Robert, who is an 
associate professor of finance at Santa Clara University. "The papers we 
wrote combined our interests in how the Internet is affecting the economy 
by examining real estate (malls in particular)," says Hendershott. "I 
expect I will continue to do some of these because they are fun and an 
excuse to interact with my father and brother more."

Hendershott will teach an information technology strategy course during the 
Spring 2002 semester. His office is in F596, his phone number is 643-0619, 
and his e-mail address is hender@haas.berkeley.edu.
----------
HAAS CEO EXCHANGE TO AIR ON PBS IN SEPTEMBER
CEO Exchange, the PBS television program hosted by the Haas School, will be 
broadcast in early September. Filmed in the Zellerbach Auditorium on April 
11, 2001, the program featured Cisco's John Chambers and HP's Carly Fiorina 
along with host Jeff Greenfield and an audience of Haas students, faculty, 
staff, and alumni. The show will air on local public television stations 
this month, on the following dates:

KQED, channel 9, Thursday, September 13, at 11:00 p.m.
KRCB, channel 22, Tuesday, September 11, at 9:00 p.m.
KTEH, channel 54, Thursday, September 13, at 10:00 p.m. and September 20 at 
1:00 a.m.
----------
DIANE DIMEFF HEADS FOR COLORADO AS ASSISTANT DEAN FOR MBA PROGRAMS AT CU 
BOULDER
After serving for 8 years as director of the Haas School's Evening MBA 
Program, Diane Dimeff has accepted a position at the University of Colorado 
at Boulder as the assistant dean for MBA Programs. She will be leaving Haas 
on Friday, September 28.

"I'm very excited about the opportunity to help build and grow CU Boulder's 
MBA Programs, especially since Colorado has been a vacation destination for 
my family for so many years," says Dimeff. "It will be hard to leave Haas 
and UC Berkeley as I've been associated with the university for 30 years 
now, either as a student or as an employee.  I'm very appreciative of the 
opportunity I've had to participate in the evolution of the Haas Evening 
MBA Program and thank the faculty, staff, students, alumni, and the 
administration for their support."

Under Dimeff's direction, the Evening MBA Program has grown from a San 
Francisco satellite to a thriving on-campus program. Her major accomplishments:

- applications to the Evening MBA Program increased by 128%, and enrollment 
increased by 58%
- the average GMAT increased from 652 to 680
-  the Evening MBA Program moved from San Francisco to the UCB campus
- the core curriculum was reconfigured
- the number of electives offered tripled
- the comprehensive examination was replaced by the the mid-program 
academic retreat
- the International Business Seminar was initiated

"We wish Diane great success at the University of Colorado, Boulder -- 
despite her new school having as a mascot a shaggy, plodding, female 
buffalo named Ralphie instead of a sophisticated, nimble bear named Oski!" 
says Andrew Shogan, associate dean of instruction.
----------
THE SUMMER 2001 ISSUE OF THE CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW IS AVAILABLE
The Summer 2001 issue of the California Management Review (CMR) is now 
available. CMR, which is published by the Haas School, serves as a bridge 
of communication between those who study management and those who practice 
it. This issue includes articles from two symposia, one by Haas marketing 
professor Russell Winer on Customer Relationship Management and one on 
Systems Dynamics.

CMR articles in the Summer 2001 issue:

System Dynamics Modeling:
Tools for Learning in a Complex World
John D. Sterman

Tradeoffs in Responses to Work Pressure in the Service Industry
Rogelio Oliva

Past the Tipping Point:
The Persistence of Firefighting in Product Development
Nelson P. Repenning, Paulo Gonçalves, and Laura J. Black

Nobody Ever Gets Credit for Fixing Problems that Never Happened:
Creating and Sustaining Process Improvement
Nelson P. Repenning and John D. Sterman

A Framework for Customer Relationship Management
Russell S. Winer

Uncovering Patterns in Cybershopping
Wendy W. Moe and Peter S. Fader

The Customer Pyramid:
Creating and Serving Profitable Customers
Valarie A. Zeithaml, Roland T. Rust, and Katherine N. Lemon

Haas students receive CMR on a complimentary basis. It is available in the 
program offices and student lounges. The alumni subscription rate is $35 
and the foreign alumni rate is $50. All the subscription info is at 
CMR's  web site: www.haas.berkeley.edu/cmr/.
----------
HAAS IN THE NEWS
A study of market analysts' performance for the year 2000, which was 
co-authored by Brett Trueman, the Donald and Ruth Seiler Professor of 
Public Accounting and chair of the Haas Accounting Group, and Reuven 
Lehavy, assistant professor in the Haas Accounting Group, appeared in The 
American Enterprise Online in their September issue. Read the full article 
here: http://www.taemag.com/taesep01b.htm.

Janet Yellen was mentioned in the Capital Markets Report on September 1 in 
an article about tax cuts and debt paydowns.

The Seattle Times quoted Severin Borenstein, the E.T. Grether Professor in 
Public Policy and Business Administration, on September 1 in an article 
about the absence of power blackouts this summer.

Ken Rosen, professor of the Haas Real Estate Group and chairman of the 
Fisher Center for Real Estate and Urban Economics, was featured in the Los 
Angeles Times on August 28 in an article about commercial real estate and 
in connection to Shorenstein Co. Read more here: 
http://latimes.com/templates/misc/printstory.jsp?slug=la%2D000069589aug28.

The Financial Times mentioned Raymond Miles, professor emeritus and former 
dean, in its August 21 issue in an article about the future of 
Hewlett-Packard.  Read the full article here:
http://globalarchive.ft.com/globalarchive/articles.html?print=true&id=010821007311.
----------
HAPPENING AT HAAS
"Business Combinations and Goodwill -- What The New FASB Rulings Mean to You?"
The methodology used to determine the amount of goodwill and identifiable 
intangible assets to be recorded in a business combination is undergoing a 
major change. A panel of experts will discuss the details of the FASB rulings.
Friday, September 7, 2001
1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
San Francisco Airport Marriott
Price: $200 per person
Contact: Dayna Haugh at 510-642-6334 or haugh@haas.berkeley.edu or visit 
http://www.haas.berkeley.edu/accounting
Guest Speakers: Helen Munter, Deloitte & Touche; Kim Marie Boylan, Mayer, 
Brown & Platt; John Hertz, Intel; Jeff Jones, Deloitte &Touche; Peter 
Wheeler, Deloitte & Touche; and John Whittle, Corio.

MBA SUMMER WORKSHOP: WINE AND CHEESE TASTING PARTY
Please come and meet the entering first-year MBAs and join old friends from 
past years.
Friday, September 7, 2001
Wells Fargo Room
A nice selection of wines (favoring reds this year), cheeses, and other 
tasty treats funded from surplus revenues of the Summer Communications and 
Quantitative Methods Workshops.  Be sure to bring an ID if you even look 
like you might POSSIBLY be under 21!
MBAs, staff, and faculty invited.

PACIFIC RIM FIRM NIGHT
First- and second-year students mingle with representatives from a variety 
of companies at this business casual recruiting event. Bring your resume.
Thursday, September 13, 2001
6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.

Consumption Function
Friday, September 14, 2001
5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
Haas Courtyard/B of A Forum

PH.D. SEMINARS
E.T. GRETHER MARKETING SEMINAR
"Self-schema Matching and Attitude Change: Situational and Dispositional 
Determinants of Message Elaboration," by Christian Wheeler, Stanford 
University
Thursday, September 6, 2001
3:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Room F320
For more information, contact Laura Gardner at lgardner@haas.berkeley.edu.

IDS270-INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS WORKSHOP
"Foreign Direct Investment and Technology Transfer," by Garrick Blalock, UC 
Berkeley
Thursday, September 6, 2001
4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Room C325, Cheit Hall
For more information, contact Anita Stephens at stephens@haas.berkeley.edu.

FINANCE SEMINAR
"An Analysis of Shareholder Agreements" by Gilles Chemla, University of 
British Columbia
Thursday, September 6, 2001
4:15 p.m. to 5:45 p.m.
Room C110, Cheit Hall
For more information, contact June Wong at june@haas.berkeley.edu.

REAL ESTATE SEMINAR
"Signaling-Screening Equilibrium in the Mortgage Market," by Danny 
Ben-Shahar, Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya
Friday, September 7, 2001
11:00 a.m.
Room C250, Cheit Hall
For more information, contact Lynn Lobner at lyoung@haas.berkeley.edu.

E.T. GRETHER MARKETING SEMINAR
"Promoting to Multiple Agents: The Case of Direct-to-Consumer Drug 
Advertising," by Marta Wosinska, UC Berkeley
Thursday, September 13, 2001
3:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Room F320
For more information, contact Laura Gardner at lgardner@haas.berkeley.edu.

ALUMNI EVENTS
East Bay Chapter Haas Connection
The East Bay Chapter of the Haas Alumni Network invites you to network and 
exchange ideas with fellow East Bay alumni and Haas students on the first 
Thursday of every month.
Thursday, September 6, 2001
7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
Pyramid Brewery, 901 Gilman Street (at Eighth Street) in Berkeley.
Contact: Bill Vederman, East Bay Chapter President, vederman@alumni.haas.org.

East Bay Chapter Family Picnic
The East Bay Chapter of the Haas Alumni Network presents "Fun in the 
Montclair Sun," an informal afternoon pinic in the park. All Haas alums 
welcome.
Saturday, September 15, 2001
3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Location: Montclair Park, Montclair Village (off Hwy 13 at Moraga or Park 
exits in Oakland).
Contact and Phone: Leslie Fisher, 925-244-1233 or e-mail at 
lkfconsulting@hotmail.com.
Soft drinks will be provided. Please bring your own food or snacks and a 
dessert to share.
RSVP: Leslie Fisher at 925-244-1233 or lkfconsulting@hotmail.com. Please 
provide your name, email address, and number of people attending.
----------
HAAS CELEBRATIONS
Birthdays
David Stuckey, September 4
Alison Thompson, September 6
Yong No, September 9
Evelyn Graham, September 10
Dan Sullivan, September 13

The Haas NewsWire respects the wishes of staff and faculty who would not 
like their birthdays announced. Please e-mail a request to have your 
birthday marked "do not announce" on the central birthday list to 
Haasnews@haas.berkeley.edu.
----------
The Haas NewsWire is the electronic news weekly for the Haas community 
published every Monday by the Marketing and Communications Office at the 
Haas School. Send your news, feedback, and suggestions to 
haasnews@haas.berkeley.edu.

Archived issues of Haas NewsWire are available online at
http://www.haas.berkeley.edu/groups/newspubs/haasnews/archives/hncurrent.html.

To subscribe to Haas NewsWire, address e-mail to 
majordomo@haas.berkeley.edu; in the body of the message type "subscribe 
haasnewswire" in the first line, and "end" in the second line. To 
unsubscribe to HNW, type "unsubscribe haasnewswire" in the first line, and 
"end" in the second line.

