Received: from NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.98]) by NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Mon, 29 Oct 2001 14:04:59 -0600
x-mimeole: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: RE: Lousyanna State vs. Texas - Pretenders vs. Contenders
Date: Mon, 29 Oct 2001 14:04:58 -0600
Message-ID: <EC2B646CC65D53418F815AE6F3954AE631A113@NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <EC2B646CC65D53418F815AE6F3954AE631A113@NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: Lousyanna State vs. Texas - Pretenders vs. Contenders
Thread-Index: AcFgHUdogBgJgswJEdWxIwBQi+MJ2QAldMMgAABxiDA=
From: "Landry, Chad" <Chad.Landry@ENRON.com>
To: "Lenhart, Matthew" <Matthew.Lenhart@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Chad.Landry@ENRON.com

anybody saying anything about the stock price.  rumors are coming out about us getting bought out by shell or a large private equity shop.

CKL

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Lenhart, Matthew  
Sent:	Monday, October 29, 2001 1:58 PM
To:	'brian.r.vassigh@accenture.com'; Val.Generes@accenture.com; Landry, Chad; matthew.j.garver@accenture.com; elliot.j.green@accenture.com; kevin.labban@accenture.com
Subject:	RE: Lousyanna State vs. Texas - Pretenders vs. Contenders

famous vassigh quotes:

"pass the butter"
"you gonna finish that?"
"if loving this cake is wrong, i don't want to be right"
"i can eat twice as much of this ice cream b/c it is fat free"
"food in lousyana is overrated.  texas food rules"
"texas biscuts rule the world"
"i like my cookies texas size"
"don't mess with texas banana splits"


 -----Original Message-----
From: 	brian.r.vassigh@accenture.com@ENRON   On Behalf Of brian.r.vassigh@accenture.com
Sent:	Sunday, October 28, 2001 7:56 PM
To:	Val.Generes@accenture.com; Lenhart, Matthew; Landry, Chad; matthew.j.garver@accenture.com; elliot.j.green@accenture.com; kevin.labban@accenture.com
Subject:	Lousyanna State vs. Texas - Pretenders vs. Contenders

Well, Well, Well,
I am writing this note to all the smack talking coonass LSU fans who enjoy
banging on The University of Texas Longhorns with smug smack like
"Overrated, Overrated".
I usually use the BCC field when sending smack notes like this so everybody
won't get barraged with weak Reply All's from recipients who think they can
go toe to toe with me in e-mail smack (i.e. Val and his weak shit he likes
to send).
This time is different because I think y'all should know who your fellow
pathetic smack talking LSU fans are.
Y'all can start a new support group - called "Vassigh's College Football
Smacked down Bitches - that got their cakeholes shut by Chris Simms, Cedric
Benson, and Roy Williams et al"
Y'all have dished it all out, so I do not feel bad for rubbing salt into
the fatal wound that Ole Miss delivered you and your team Saturday night.

Here a couple of smack statements made by some if not all of the cajun's
included in this e-mail header.
   "Simms sucks, how could he be a preseason heisman candidate?" - Over his
   last three games, Simms is 59-of-88 (67.0 percent) for 698 yards and 12
   touchdowns passing 2 touchdowns rushing with just one interception
   (176.41 rating).  He has just started about ONE full seasons worth of
   games recently and is coming into his own.  Simms will be a top NFL pick
   as will Roy Williams and Cedric Benson.  I can't think of any College
   Football team in history with the high caliber triple threat that UT has
   with Simms, Benson, and Williams.
   "The SEC is the best conference in football, the Big XII Sucks" - What a
   joke that statement is.
   "LSU would whip UT"  - Yeah right - LSU Could not beat Rice.
   "UT is the most overrated team in college football" - interesting since
   they are higher ranked now in November than they were in the preseason
   polls.
   "Mack Brown can only recruit - he can't coach worth a damn - Nick Saban
   is better" - Mack Brown has one loss - he hasn't lost in Austin since he
   has been coach - while Saban has led LSU to three losses - 2 in the Red
   Stick - just THIS SEASON.

Every college football analyst would agree no conference compares to the
Big XII.
The BIG XII have 3 TEAMS RANKED IN THE TOP 5 early November - unbelievable!
Two of the top ranked BIG XII team's only losses were to the other top
ranked BIG XII school.  UT loss to OU and OU loss to Nebraska.
The only way the best teams in the Big XII lose is when they have to play
against each other.
The highest ranked SEC team (Florida) lost to Auburn which lost to pathetic
Arkansas.

All football players worth a damn have left y'alls God Forsaken state.
Peyton to Tennessee, Marshall Faulk to SDSU, the newest Manning to Ole Miss
that just whipped up on y'alls 3rd world state university in the Red Stick
on national television on a cool October Saturday night.
Cajuns like Jake Delhomme and Bobby Bouchieaux stay in Lousyanna to play
college ball though - that's some encouraging news for y'all.
I can't think of one LSU player that has ever done shit in the NFL.
NFL teams have gotten screwed every time they drafted a Lousyanna State
football player.
David Lafleur, Kevin Faulk, Harvey Williams, Eddie Kennison - the list goes
on and on.  It is really pathetic.
Texas has just RECENTLY produced dominating hausses like Ricky, Tony
Brackens, Dan Neil, Shaun Rogers, Leonard Davis, Priest Holmes, Blake
Brockermeyer, Bryant Westbrook, and many others.  Look at Eric Metcalf in
his first game back to the NFL for the Redskins - breaking NFL records.
Texas players are magic baby.
Not to mention legends like the Tyler Rose, Tom Landry, Bobby Layne, and
Tommy Nobis

I hope y'all enjoy Shreveport on a cold December night while y'all attend
Lousyanna States bowl game against Fresno State at the Independence bowl.
At least you can enjoy the New Years holiday by watching the NFL like
offense of The University of Texas Longhorns play in a BCS bowl and God
willing with some magic from TAMU over the Texas Traitor filled roster of
OU and some other help - watch UT vs. Miami in the Rose Bowl.

I guess that smack from Elliot saying Rohan was better than Simms seems
pretty foolish to you now doesn't it.
That dude needs to play linebacker if he wants to get in the NFL.  He might
have a decent arm but he has no clue in the pocket,  The difference between
how Eli Manning ran the passing game and Rohan did for LSU Saturday night
showed LSU's deficiency at the QB position.  Fumbling, bumbling, stumbling
is the best way to describe his play.

CKL - you better buy your family Christmas gifts from the dollar store
because you need to save your money to pay on the $500 bet you made with me
the night of Val's wedding in that little bar in Natchez, Mississippi.  You
boldly put your soon departed money where your mouth was all night, since
all you were ranting was "tiger bait, tiger bait" any time I was trying to
tell you how UT would whip up on LSU like the 3 lesser ranked teams have
already done this season.
The bet for $500 was to go to the person whose team would be ranked higher
at the end of the 2001 College Football season: Me = University of Texas
You =  LSU.
Well since UT is in the top 5 and with a worst case scenario would not
finish out of the top 15 this year and the fact that LSU will not even
finish the season ranked - you need to start saving your extra pocket cash
- or we can work out an installment plan.
Lenhart was a witness as well was another of Val's amigos (I forgot the
name but know the face).

It looks like history will keep on repeating itself with the Great State of
Texas always being superior in every facet over it's little cajun neighbor
to the east - Lousyanna.
Texas has the winningest NFL team of all time in the Dallas Cowboys, the 3
time champions and top 4 ranked Texas Longhorns.
Conversely Lousyanna has the losingest NFL team of all time in the Aints,
and the doormat of the pathetic SEC west Lousyanna State university.
The last Governor of Texas is the President of the United States and leader
of the free world.
The last Governor of Lousyanna is in prison licking Boudreaux's balls for
the next 15 years or so.
And the bottom line is that y'all are in my State working because there are
no jobs outside of casinos and bars in Lousyanna

Even the only bright spots in the pathetic history of y'alls only
professional sports franchise is provided by Texas players - Earl Campbell
and Ricky Williams.

He who laughs last laughs best.
Man this note is a classic.  I think I will be sending it to Jim Rome.

Hook 'Em

Val forward this note all over the Red Stick and all over that God Forsaken
land east of the Sabine.
The Truth shall set your people free.

Brian


This message is for the designated recipient only and may contain
privileged or confidential information.  If you have received it in error,
please notify the sender immediately and delete the original.  Any other
use of the email by you is prohibited.


