Received: from nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.237]) by NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Tue, 15 Jan 2002 13:12:04 -0600
Received: from NAHOU-MSMSW05P.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.226]) by nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Tue, 15 Jan 2002 13:12:04 -0600
Received: from mailman.enron.com (unverified) by NAHOU-MSMSW05P.corp.enron.com
 (Content Technologies SMTPRS 4.2.5) with ESMTP id <T5876af53c8c0a86ee285c@NAHOU-MSMSW05P.corp.enron.com>;
 Tue, 15 Jan 2002 13:12:03 -0600
Received: from yahoo.com ([210.95.109.194])
	by mailman.enron.com (8.11.4/8.11.4/corp-1.06) with SMTP id g0FJBp926603;
	Tue, 15 Jan 2002 13:11:55 -0600 (CST)
Date: Tue, 15 Jan 2002 13:11:55 -0600 (CST)
Reply-To: <marketnewsalert606313@yahoo.com>
Message-ID: <000c31b61bce$4836d0d8$8ad76ca6@nyljpl>
From: <marketnewsalert606313@yahoo.com>
To: Investor@mailman.enron.com
Subject: MARKET TRADING ALERT (8223oIaS0-731mEwR69@18)
MiME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="iso-8859-1"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-Priority: 3 (Normal)
X-MSMail-Priority: Normal
X-Mailer: Microsoft Outlook Express 5.50.4133.2400
Importance: Normal
Return-Path: marketnewsalert606313@yahoo.com

Trading News Alerts' Last 3 Picks are over 475%
Here Is Our Next Hot Pick!

IRV INC (OTCBB: IRVV)

URGENT BUY (IRVV) AT $.60 PER SHARE!

SELL TARGET $2.25 PER SHARE!

Our track record shows we offer valuable research that makes a difference to our
investors. We target serious gains for serious investors looking for agressive
moves in undervalued situations.

This Company is Making An Aquisiton! 


iRV, Inc. Announces Intent to Acquire Scarab Systems, Inc., Smart CardPayment Solution Provider
BOULDER, Colo., Dec 13, 2001 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- The Board of Directors of iRV, Inc. (OTC Bulletin Board: IRVV) is pleased to announce that the company has signed a non-binding letter of intent to acquire Scarab Systems, Inc., a privately held Nevada corporation. Scarab Systems is engaged in the distribution and sale of smart card payment systems for applications in e-commerce, banking, telecommunications, security and personal data transfer. The acquisition will proceed subject to completion of specific terms and conditions to be laid out in a definitive agreement. The transaction is also subject to the completion by Scarab Systems of a private placement and other customary conditions. 

Scarab Systems, Inc. has a license to provide rechargeable stored value smart cards for private label applications that the cardholder can load from a designated banking account via the Internet or via designated Automated Banking Machines (ABM). The funds can be withdrawn from most ATMs worldwide, or the stored value can be used to purchase goods and services anywhere that VISA is accepted, whether online or in brick and mortar businesses. Scarab's payment solutions operate on existing network infrastructures. Unlike many other smart card systems, Scarab's program uses existing processing and billing platforms and encryption technology, which work with existing POS and ATM systems. This technology helps eliminate the usual cost-prohibitive infrastructure required to set up a smart card program. 

"Scarab Systems licensed technology provides exciting prospects for innovative payment solutions that we feel represent a valuable contribution in iRV's strategy of expanding its technological asset base. The acquisition of Scarab represents a critical step in the process of implementing technologies that deliver recurring revenue," stated Clifford C. Thygesen, President of iRV, Inc. 

"The public market allows the investment community the opportunity to share in the exciting growth that Scarab Systems and the smart card industry is experiencing. The revised corporate structure will help accelerate the rollout of Scarab's payment system technologies," stated Thomas Mills, President of Scarab Systems. 

The smart card industry continues to experience tremendous growth. Each year card sales continue to set records, as the market is poised for enormous prosperity in the new millennium. Smart card sales at $274 Million in 1996 are estimated to be $5 Billion in 2003 (Frost & Sullivan). It is estimated that the industry as a whole will continue to grow at a rate between 30% and 50% annually for the foreseeable future (SBJ Research). 

Safe Harbor Statement: The statements contained herein which are not historical fact are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, certain delays in testing and evaluation of products and other risks detailed from time to time in iRV Inc. filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission









IMPORTANT NOTICE AND DISCLAIMER: The purpose of this 
advertisement, like any advertising, is to provide coverage 
and publicity for the advertising company, its products or 
services. The information provided in this advertisement is 
not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or 
entity in any jurisdiction or country where such 
distribution or use would be contrary to law or regulation 
or which would subject us to any registration requirement 
within such jurisdiction or country. Verify all claims and 
do your own due diligence. This advertisement is not a 
solicitation or recommendation to buy, sell or hold 
securities and does not provide an analysis of the 
financial position of the company. We recommend you use the 
information found in this advertisement as an initial 
starting point for conducting your own research on the 
advertised company in order to determine your own personal 
opinion of the company before investing. All information 
concerning the advertised company contained herein should 
be verified independently by an attorney, with such company 
and an independent licensed securities analyst. We are not 
offering securities for sale. An offer to buy or sell can 
be made only with accompanying disclosure documents and 
only in the states and provinces for which they are 
approved. Many states have established rules requiring the 
approval of a security by a state security administrator. 
Check with http://www.nasaa.org and call your state 
security administrator to determine whether a particular 
security is licensed for sale in your state. Many companies 
have information filed with state securities regulators and 
many will supply investors with additional information on 
request. All statements and opinions contained in this 
advertisement are the sole opinion of the authors and are 
subject to change without notice. We are not liable for any 
investment decisions by our readers. Readers should 
independently investigate and fully understand all risks 
before investing. It is strongly recommended that any 
purchase or sale decision be discussed with a financial 
adviser or broker prior to completing any such purchase or 
sale decision. We are not registered investment advisers, 
or broker-dealers, or members of any financial regulatory 
bodies. The information contained in this advertisement is 
provided as an information service only. The accuracy or 
completeness of the information is not warranted and is 
only as reliable as the sources from which it was obtained. 
We disclaim any and all liability as to the completeness or 
accuracy of the information and for any omissions of 
material facts. This advertisement may contain hyperlinks 
to web sites operated by third parties other than us. Such 
hyperlinks are provided for the reader's reference and 
convenience only. We are not responsible for the 
reliability of these external sites nor are we responsible 
for any of the contents, advertising, products, or other 
materials on such external sites. Our inclusion of 
hyperlinks to such web sites does not imply any endorsement 
of the material on such web sites or any association with 
their operators. Under no circumstances shall we be held 
responsible or liable, directly or indirectly, for any loss 
or damage caused or alleged to have been caused in 
connection with the use of or reliance on any content, 
goods, or services available on such external site. Any 
concerns regarding any external link should be directed to 
its respective site administrator or webmaster. We may 
refer to other sources of information, or other commentary. 
We intend to offer these items to readers as additional 
sources of information, but disclaim any implication that 
we endorse information contained in such outside sources. 
Any referral by us is no guarantee of the accuracy of any 
information provided by outside sources. As we disclaim any 
representation concerning source reliability, readers must 
contact information suppliers on their own and gauge to the 
reader's satisfaction the truthfulness of any source 
information. It should be understood that there is no 
guarantee past performance will be indicative of future 
results. Any reference to past performance(s) of companies 
previously advertised are specially selected to be 
referenced based on the favorable performance of these 
companies and the companies referenced may not be 
representative of all past advertised companies as not all 
past advertised companies may have performed as well. 
Readers are cautioned that small and micro-cap stocks are 
high-risk investments and that they may lose all or a 
portion of their investment if they make a purchase in our 
advertised stocks. In order to be in full compliance with 
the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, Section 17(b), the publisher
of this report,is receiving 200,000 shares of RESTRICTED STOCK
of Irv Inc. as compensation for the distribution
of this and other advertisements. Since we 
have received compensation and hold stock in the advertised 
company there is an inherent conflict of interest in our 
statements and opinions and such statements and opinions 
cannot be considered independent. We will benefit from any 
increase in share price of the advertised company. We will 
sell our shares at any time, without notice, be that 
before, during or immediately after the release of this 
advertisement. The liquidation of our stock may have a 
negative impact on the securities of the company 
liquidated, including decreased market value and/or 
dilution of the company's securities. Furthermore, our 
associates and/or employees and/or principals may have 
stock positions in advertised companies purchased in the 
open market or in private transactions. These positions may 
be liquidated, without prior notification, even after we 
have made positive comments regarding the advertised 
company. It should be understood that any price targets 
and/or projections mentioned are solely opinions and should 
not be taken as suggested holding periods. In fact, we will 
sell our positions in any companies advertised before they 
reach such target prices. The receipt of this information 
constitutes your acceptance of these terms and conditions. 
Reading this advertisement shall not create under any 
circumstances an offer to buy or sell stock in any company 
advertised. Nor shall it create any principal-agent 
relationship between the reader and us. The stocks of 
advertised companies may trade in fast moving, highly 
volatile markets, and any reader should observe the trading 
behavior of any advertised company prior to investing. 
Advertised stocks are often thinly traded and large sell 
orders will have a substantially negative impact on share 
price. Investors in advertised stocks may experience 
difficulty in selling shares without seeing a decline in 
market price and may have difficulty in finding ready 
buyers of their stock. Information within this 
advertisement contains "forward looking" statements within 
the meaning of Section 27(a) of the U.S. Securities Act of 
1933 and Section 21(e) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934. Any statements that express or involve discussions 
with respect to predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, 
projections, objectives, goals, assumptions or future 
events or performance are not statements of historical 
facts and may be forward looking statements. Forward 
looking statements are based on expectations, estimates and 
projections at the time the statements are made that 
involve a number of risks and uncertainties which could 
cause actual results or events to differ materially from 
those presently anticipated. Forward looking statements may 
be identified through the use of words such as expects, 
will, anticipates, estimates, believes, or by statements 
indicating certain actions may, could or might occur. We 
encourage our readers to invest carefully and read the 
investor information available at the web sites of the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) at 
http://www.sec.gov and the National Association of 
Securities Dealers (NASD) at http://www.nasd.com. We also 
strongly recommend that you read the SEC advisory to 
investors concerning Internet Stock Fraud, which can be 
found at http://www.sec.gov/consumer/cyberfr.htm. The NASD 
has published information on how to invest carefully at its 
web site. Readers can review all public filings by 
companies at the SEC s EDGAR page. All information within 
this advertisement is qualified in its entirety by the 
detailed information and financial statements of the 
advertised company contained in its regulatory filings with 
the SEC. 
[2637WoIa4-@9]


