Received: from nahou-msmbx01v.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.39]) by NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Mon, 31 Dec 2001 09:43:45 -0600
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.5762.3
Subject: RE: Proposed Retention Bonuses for Netco
Date: Mon, 31 Dec 2001 09:43:45 -0600
Message-ID: <C2DC5431391CAD4480D6C59B9A27F27C7B22FC@NAHOU-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <C2DC5431391CAD4480D6C59B9A27F27C7B22FC@NAHOU-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: Proposed Retention Bonuses for Netco
Thread-Index: AcGPnQwwlmRmllHqThWVj+8DsEBdCQCcZ9GwAAAa9LAAAGvzIAAADwvA
Sensitivity: Company-Confidential
From: "Forster, David" <David.Forster@ENRON.com>
To: "Kitchen, Louise" <Louise.Kitchen@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: David.Forster@ENRON.com

I've been spending a fair bit of time sitting with the troops, sharing information with them, getting a sense of the mood and basically just trying to be visible, accessible and supportive. I think for the most part, people are trying to give us time for things to settle out, while trying also to ensure they have an escape route in case things go pear-shaped.
 
Kal and Heather were both out last Friday and will be out until Wednesday, so we have not done anything yet to modify the designs. I did send them both an email on the subject, though, so we should be on the case on Wednesday. 
 
Christmas was great - thanks for asking. We had a quiet Christmas with just the two of us. I repainted the helicopter (have pictures, if you're interested).
 
Have you been having a good visit with your Mom and Dad? Hopefully you've been able to put this place out of your mind when you go home. . .
 
Dave

-----Original Message-----
From: Kitchen, Louise 
Sent: Monday, December 31, 2001 9:37 AM
To: Forster, David
Subject: RE: Proposed Retention Bonuses for Netco
Sensitivity: Confidential


We just need people to give us a week.  Surely they'll give us that long.
 
How are the new designs coming?
 
Did you and Avril have a nice Christmas - I am trying to reconnect my UK cell phone - I have been on the phone for 1 and half hours.

-----Original Message-----
From: Forster, David 
Sent: Monday, December 31, 2001 9:34 AM
To: Kitchen, Louise
Subject: RE: Proposed Retention Bonuses for Netco
Sensitivity: Confidential


Jennifer doesn't know it yet, but when I submitted final numbers to HR, I kept her suggested increases and did not apply her suggested decreases (which she did to balance the increases).
 
I expect we are going to lose some people. I hope the ones that go are not the best ones. Obviously, the more we are willing to spend in bonus, the fewer the people we will lose. 
 
When would you like to get together to discuss?
 
Dave
 
 

 -----Original Message-----
From: Kitchen, Louise 
Sent: Monday, December 31, 2001 9:21 AM
To: Forster, David
Subject: FW: Proposed Retention Bonuses for Netco
Sensitivity: Confidential



 
-----Original Message-----
From: Denny, Jennifer 
Sent: Friday, December 28, 2001 6:42 AM
To: Kitchen, Louise
Subject: Proposed Retention Bonuses for Netco
Sensitivity: Confidential


Louise,
I am sorry to bother you at such a critical time, because I know you are doing everything you can to salvage the remaining pieces at Enron and are working long & tiresome hours to achieve this difficult matter. 
However, I felt like I had to at least let you know my thoughts on the following.
 
Dave Forster & I met a couple of weeks ago on his initiative to discuss the proposed retention bonuses for my group. I was asked to review the preliminary numbers by individual. I was allowed to move dollars but NOT allowed to increase the total dollar figure for my group. Frankly, the numbers seemed pretty low. 
 
Assuming the goal is to retain key employees for Netco, I am not confident these numbers will achieve this. 
I know several people in my group are interviewing outside of the company. I have asked them to be patient, not make any quick decisions, and give us a chance to see this through.
 
Dave told me the figures were based on mid year evaluations. As you know, mid year evaluations are typically lower than year end. The mid year evaluation allows the employee time to improve in order to get to the desired level by year end. I understand the need for a reference point of some sort and mid year was the latest figure available. However, because the retention numbers were based on this, they are significantly lower.
 
My intentions are not to show any disrepect to Dave by discussing this with you but I wanted to make sure my thoughts /opinions were communicated to you. If Dave has already discussed this with you, I apologize for the duplication. 
 
If you have any questions, please feel free to call me. I am on holiday & will be traveling today but can be reached on my cell at 713-446-9669.
 
Thank you for your time.
Jennifer 


