Recieved: from nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.237]) by NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Wed, 5 Sep 2001 13:21:15 -0500
Received: from corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.228]) by nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Wed, 5 Sep 2001 13:21:15 -0500
Received: from mailman.enron.com (unverified) by corp.enron.com
 (Content Technologies SMTPRS 4.2.1) with ESMTP id <T55cef0351fc0a86ee4588@corp.enron.com> for <jdasovic@exchange.enron.com>;
 Wed, 5 Sep 2001 13:21:08 -0500
Received: from c007.snv.cp.net (c007-h015.c007.snv.cp.net [209.228.33.222])
	by mailman.enron.com (8.11.4/8.11.4/corp-1.06) with SMTP id f85IK0S19456
	for <Jeff_Dasovich@enron.com>; Wed, 5 Sep 2001 13:20:00 -0500 (CDT)
Received: (cpmta 19126 invoked from network); 5 Sep 2001 11:02:26 -0700
Received: from unknown (HELO jones) (216.142.211.23)
  by smtp.pennfuture.org (209.228.33.222) with SMTP; 5 Sep 2001 11:02:26 -0700
X-Sent: 5 Sep 2001 18:02:26 GMT
Message-ID: <00d101c13635$9fd6b6e0$0c32020a@pennfuture.org>
Reply-To: "PennFuture" <pennfuture@pennfuture.org>
From: "PennFuture" <pennfuture@pennfuture.org>
To: "Friends of PennFuture" <pennfuture@pennfuture.org>
Subject: PennFuture's Green Power Update
Date: Wed, 5 Sep 2001 14:02:59 -0400
Organization: PennFuture
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: multipart/mixed;
	boundary="----=_NextPart_000_00CD_01C13613.7B43BD40"
X-Priority: 3
X-MSMail-Priority: Normal
X-Mailer: Microsoft Outlook Express 5.50.4522.1200
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V5.50.4522.1200
Return-Path: pennfuture@pennfuture.org

Giant Wind Blade Gives Pennsylvanians a Sneak Peak at New Clean Energy Choice Coming this Fall

As a more than 100-foot-long wind power blade arrived by truck in front of Philadelphia's City Hall Thursday morning, the Mid-Atlantic Renewable Energy Coalition (MAREC) held a press conference to announce the near completion of Mill Run, the largest wind farm in the East, which will help power Pennsylvania homes and businesses by this fall. 

Sitting atop Laurel Mountain in Fayette County, Mill Run will generate enough Green-e certified clean electricity to power over 5,000 homes. The wind farm's output is already available to large business and commercial customers. One of the first local institutions to put their money on home-grown wind is Carnegie Mellon University, who recently announced the largest retail wind purchase in the United States and plans to buy 5 percent of its electricity from Green-e certified wind power generated at Mill Run beginning this year. 

While generating electricity with no emissions and requiring no fuel, the wind farm is also bringing jobs and tax revenue to a rural area, as well as providing lease payments to the farm owner who profits from an additional "crop." The wind turbines actually use very little land, and farming and other agricultural activities can continue right up to the base of the turbines.

Mill Run is one of a growing number of new wind projects that are under development in Pennsylvania. Two other wind farms are scheduled for construction in Somerset and Wayne Counties, and are expected to begin commercial operation in late 2001 or early 2002. And at least four additional wind farms are in development and may provide as much as 108 MW in 2002 or 2003. All told, as much as 266 MW of new wind energy alone is likely to be ready to serve Pennsylvania by 2003. This is enough clean energy to power at least 66,500 average Pennsylvania households with 100 percent wind. 

The energy produced at Mill Run is being sold for the next twenty years to wholesaler Exelon Power Team, who in turn sells it to Community Energy, Inc. - a local retailer specializing in new wind energy. More information about the Mill Run site is available on the Atlantic Renewable Energy website at http://www.atlantic-renewable.com. If interested in purchasing wind energy, contact John Halley of CEI at (610) 254-9800, or sign up at www.newwindenergy.com. 

See the attached document for a photo of the giant wind blade!


Pittsburghers Anticipate Tremendous Opportunity to Buy Green Power and Still Save $

A golden opportunity lies just around the bend for Pittsburgh area residents and businesses to buy renewable energy and still save money. Currently, customers who switch to renewable energy products pay not just the price of the product, but also an added "regulatory stranded cost charge" of up to 3.39 cents per kWh. This charge was imposed after the electricity industry opened to competition, and is supposed to enable utilities (in this case Duquesne) to recover uneconomic investments in nuclear power made when it was a regulated monopoly. Without the collection of stranded cost charges, Duquesne may have gone bankrupt.
 
The good news is that charge will be eliminated early in 2002, slashing consumers' electricity rates across by as much as 27 percent. Even if buying renewable energy is not the lowest cost option, consumers will be able to invest some of their savings in switching to renewable energy, and still pay less than what they're paying now. For example, once the stranded cost charge is removed, a residential customer could buy one of the five renewable products presently available in the Duquesne territory and still save from 1 cent to 2 cents per kWh. That's equal to savings of over $100 a year! Buying renewable energy is one the best things that any home or business can do to clean our environment and ensure a more sustainable future, and avoids an amount of pollution equal to planting 950 trees, not driving 20,000 miles, or taking 1.7 cars off the road! Pittsburgh area residents will be some of the first in the country to enjoy the elimination of the stranded cost charge. 

See the attached document to view a complete listing of Green-e certified renewable energy products currently available in Pennsylvania!


The European Commission Evaluates the External Costs of Energy Production

The European Commission (EC) recently reported that the cost of generating electricity from coal is up to 120 times more expensive than wind, and 10 times more expensive than generating from solar photovoltaics. In a study quantifying what would happen to the cost of generating electricity from various fuel sources if environmental damage, health damage and other external costs were taken into account, the EC concluded that the cost to generate electricity from coal or oil would double, while the cost of production from natural gas would increase by 30 percent. 

This is the first research project of its kind to calculate financial costs of socio-economic damages resulting from different fuel sources for the entire continent. The report concludes that the cost of environmental and health damage could be addressed by either taxing damaging fuels and technologies, or by encouraging or subsidizing cleaner technologies that avoid socio-environmental costs.

Since taxation on a continental level is difficult to achieve, the Commission has agreed to encourage renewables. In February, it published guidelines on state aid for environmental protection, which explicitly said, "Member States may grant operating aid to new plants producing renewable energy that will be calculated on the basis of the external costs avoided." 

To conduct the study, the EC contributed 10 million Eurodollars to analyze 20 research projects from the past decade, and all member states of the European Union participated, as well as the United States. The EC will build on the results of this analysis with its recent launch of the NEWEXT (new elements for the assessment of external costs from energy technologies) research project, which will study additional elements for the evaluation of external costs, including the monetary valuation of mortality risk, evaluation of acidification and eutrophication on the ecosystem and biodiversity, and effects of major accidents in non-nuclear fuel chains, such as oil spills. For more information about the project, visit their website at http://externe.jrc.es/.


Mid-Atlantic Renewable Energy Coalition Preps for Major Campaign

The Mid-Atlantic Renewable Energy Coalition (MAREC) is gearing up to hit the airwaves to tout the terrific benefits of renewable energy. A coalition of clean energy advocates, renewable energy businesses and government officials, MAREC is developing a mass media campaign designed to increase consumer demand for renewable energy. Because Pennsylvania has the most vibrant renewable energy market in the Mid-Atlantic, the first year of the campaign will focus on reaching audiences in the greater metropolitan Pittsburgh and Philadelphia regions. MAREC is currently working with a consultant to develop the messages and images that will inform people about the benefits of green power and motivate people to take action, as well as raising funds and developing outreach efforts that will kick off in Pennsylvania this fall. Be on the lookout for the debut of this exciting new campaign! For more information about MAREC, contact Peter Adels at (215) 569-9695, or adels@pennfuture.org.


Renewable Energy Bills Await Hearings

In March, members of the renewable energy caucus introduced four bills in the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, which provide incentives, tax credits, and funding for renewable energy and energy efficiency. If passed, this package of bills will allow Pennsylvania to become a national leader in the move to a clean energy future. The bills were referred to the Consumer Affairs Committee chaired by Rep. Wogan, who indicated that he would hold hearings on them this summer. Unfortunately, the hearings were not scheduled. We hope that they will be scheduled in the fall. Please send letters to Rep. Wogan, asking him to schedule hearings on these important bills this fall! If you live in the Philadelphia area, you can do more by sending a letter to the editor of your local newspaper. Visit our Legislative Action Center <http://capwiz.com/pennfuture> to see sample letters and articles!


PennFuture Comments on Governor's Draft State Energy Plan

The Governor's Energy Task Force, consisting of representatives from various state agencies, recently released a Draft Energy Policy for Pennsylvania which contains 30 recommendations. PennFuture applauded the Governor's Energy Task Force for recognizing the importance of developing a state energy policy that respects the economic, public health, and environmental considerations which are essential to our quality of life. We also recognize that much work needs to be done in order to ensure a reliable, affordable and cleaner energy supply for Pennsylvania, and have submitted comments on the plan outlining our recommendations. Highlighted below are some of the recommendations we made with respect to renewable energy:

Pennsylvania should adopt a specific goal that 10 percent of Pennsylvania's electric generation be supplied from renewable resources by 2010 and take concrete policy and consumer action to achieve that goal:
--adopt H.B. 1079 which would commit the Commonwealth to purchase electricity generated from renewable resources and provide grants in support of renewable energy. 
--require all electricity suppliers to provide a portion of their supply from increasing amounts of renewable resources, achieving at least 10 percent of their electricity incrementally from renewable resources by 2010. 
--state buildings throughout Pennsylvania should buy at least 20 percent of their electricity from renewable resources by 2010.
--all savings that the Commonwealth gains as stranded costs are eliminated from its electric bills should be directed to buy renewable energy. 
  
Pennsylvania should adopt a clear goal of developing 1000 MW of wind generation in Pennsylvania by 2010, and adopt policies and programs that directly support that goal: 
-- adopt H.B. 1078, the Wind Energy Enterprise Act, which provides grants for infrastructure improvements, sales tax exemptions and investment tax credits for wind power. 
--Buy Pennsylvania wind as a consumer, support marketing and public education programs that encourage others to do so, and promote and enforce market rules that support interconnection or otherwise eliminate discrimination against renewable and intermittent generation. 

The recommended policies would lessen Pennsylvania's leading environmental and public health problems like smog, particulate matter in the air, acid rain, toxic pollution, global warming, and water pollution. To view the draft plan, visit www.PAenergy.state.pa.us. To see the complete text of PennFuture's comments, log onto www.pennfuture.org, and click on Pressroom & Publications and then PennFuture Reports.


Green Power Calendar

Fuel or Folly: Drilling in the Arctic
Date: Monday, September 24, 2001, 7:30 - 9:00 p.m.
Location: Carpenters' Hall, 320 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Contact: For reservations, call (215) 573-8828. Visit http://www.justicetalking.org.
Justice Talking - a nationally syndicated radio show - will tape a broadcast before a live audience where they will discuss the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, a 19.6 million acre stretch on the northeast corner of Alaska, and one of America's most prized reserves. Faced with an energy shortage on the west coast that some believe could spread across the nation, President Bush has revived a proposal to allow drilling in 1.5 million acres of the reserve. Environmentalists claim that the oil from the reserve won't make a dent in California's energy crisis and the drilling poses enormous risks to an important and pristine natural area. Is additional drilling the answer to growing shortages and spiraling gas prices? Join this debate over energy policy and environment law.

Solar Tour
Date: Saturday, October 13th, 2001, 9:30 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
Location: The bus will leave from the Clean Air Council at 135 S. 19th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Contact: Evan Pappas at (215) 567-4004 x236 or at epappas@cleanair.org to reserve a space.
Clean Air Council will be coordinating a bus tour of five solar homes and schools in the Philadelphia area to acquaint people with the technology and its viability in this region.

Energy & Environmental Technologies Conference
Date: Tuesday and Wednesday, October 16 - 17, 2001
Location: Atlantic City Convention Center, Atlantic City, New Jersey
Contact: Call (609) 499-3600, visit the website at www.eetech.org, or email questions to info@eetech.org.
This conference is a chance to learn how to harness the power of environmental technologies and shape the future of energy and environmental policy. Sessions will empower managers, implementers and planners for success in the new energy economy. The latest on energy and environmental policies, regulations, and advanced technologies will be addressed. Sessions will cover topics such as: "Saving/Making Money Being Environmentally Sound and Energy Efficient," "Uncovering The Relationship Between Energy Supply, Demand and Environmental Regulation," and "Innovating Technology - The Power to Choose."

Energy. Global Problem, Local Opportunity 
Date: Thursday, October 18, 2001, 7:15 p.m. 
Location: West Goshen Administration Bldg., Paoli Pike and Route 202, West Chester, Pennsylvania
Contact: League of Women Voters c/o Gene Wilson, Off-Board Energy Specialist at (610) 918-2741 or genejune@voicenet.com, or Sally Weil, President at (610) 793-2232 or capweil@bellatlantic.net.
A panel of experts helps the rest of us understand what's important about Energy in our own neighborhoods. A learning experience. 
Expected audience: League of Women Voters members and all others who feel it's time to get up to speed on this issue. 
Panel: John Hanger, President of PennFuture and one of the architects of Pennsylvania's energy deregulation plan; PA Rep. Greg Vitali, author of House Resolution 200, seeking to measure greenhouse gas emissions in Pennsylvania; PA Rep. Carol Rubley, author of House Bill 1077 in the legislature to encourage "green buildings and green appliances"; and Liz Robinson, Executive Director, Energy Coordinating Agency of Philadelphia, and Chair of the Sustainable Resource Development Fund. 
This program is sponsored by the League of Women Voters of Chester County and is open to all. 
 

Northeast Sustainable Energy Association Schools Conference 
Date: Thursday and Friday, October 18th - 19, 2001
Location: Holiday Inn, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania 
Contact: For more information, go to www.nesea.org, call NESEA at: (413) 774 6051, or email them at EVPV@nesea.org.
Cost: For one and two days respectively - adults: $55, $95; and students: $25, $45. 
The Northeast Sustainable Energy Association (NESEA) will host a major regional conference on using energy efficiency, renewable energy, alternative fuels, and transportation themes to integrate science, technology, and social studies education. Middle school through college level teachers will learn from a dynamic set of educators who guide students to explore the science behind cutting-edge energy and transportation technologies and help students assess today's energy-related issues. High school and college students are welcome. On October 18, the conference will also include a one-day symposium for school facility leaders on how to save money, reduce pollution, and improve students' learning environment through better energy and resource management.

Global Warming Conference 
Date: Friday, November 9, 2001, 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
Location: Trinity Lutheran Church in Camp Hill (near Harrisburg), Pennsylvania
Contact: Details will soon be available on the PennFuture website: www.pennfuture.org.
The conference, sponsored by PennFuture and the Interfaith Campaign on Climate Change, will focus on how global warming will affect Pennsylvania people and ecosystems. It will explore what actions people can take to cut down on global warming gasses in their homes and their congregations and provide opportunities to take action to influence public policy on global warming.
 
Clean Air Council Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Conference
Date: November 8, 2001, 9:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
Location: Sheraton Rittenhouse Square Hotel, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Contact: Evan Pappas at (215) 567-4004 x236.
A workshop targeting medium and large businesses in the EPA region II and region III areas that consume large quantities of electricity. The purpose of the workshop is to present useful information on renewable energy and energy efficiency to electricity purchasing representatives, facility managers, and electrical engineers within medium and large sized companies. Representatives will present new techniques, technologies, success stories, and financial opportunities from DOE, DEP, local businesses, and energy efficiency experts. 

Save the Date! Second Annual Green Power Awards Luncheon
Date: November 15, 2001
Location: Omni William Penn Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Contact: Brenna Herpmann at (215) 569-9692, or herpmann@pennfuture.org.
Join PennFuture and friends as we celebrate the people that are blazing the trail towards a cleaner and healthier Pennsylvania by purchasing green power, advancing policies that develop the renewable energy market, and taking the lead in developing new renewable supply! This event should be fun, informative and inspiring. Look for more details in your mailbox soon.


The Green Power: Turn It On! program is sponsored by PennFuture, a non-profit, public interest environmental group with offices in Philadelphia, Harrisburg, and Pittsburgh. PennFuture encourages everyone to buy renewable electricity, but does not endorse any supplier. If you have information related to green power to include in the next Green Power: Turn It On! Update, please call Brenna Herpmann in the Philadelphia office at (215) 569-9692, or email her at Herpmann@pennfuture.org.

To unsubscribe to Green Power Update, simply reply to this message with "unsubscribe" in the subject line. Please be sure to include the email address at which you received the publication. 

