Received: from NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.26]) by NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Thu, 6 Sep 2001 10:00:50 -0500
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: FW: pjm-media PJM News Release - September 6, 2001
Date: Thu, 6 Sep 2001 10:00:50 -0500
Message-ID: <8CFEACF6E1C8DF449259F1FAA621B0DF1B0D62@NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <8CFEACF6E1C8DF449259F1FAA621B0DF1B0D62@NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: pjm-media PJM News Release - September 6, 2001
Thread-Index: AcE24zjAYDA/Jp0UQ/C76sHTuJxDGwAAXlbA
From: "Raque, Michele" <Michele.Raque@ENRON.com>
To: "Ring, Richard" <Richard.Ring@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Michele.Raque@ENRON.com



-----Original Message-----
From: collons@pjm.com [mailto:collons@pjm.com]
Sent: Thursday, September 06, 2001 9:47 AM
To: pjm-media@risc1.pjm.com
Subject: pjm-media PJM News Release - September 6, 2001


The following message has been posted to the
PJM Media Mailing List (pjm-media):


Below is a news release issued this morning.  PJM announced a partnership with
Comverge Technologies and a program that provides small energy producers a
low-cost, wireless connection to PJM's information systems.

Contact : PJM News, toll free at			Contact: Joseph J.
Leccese
866-PJM-NEWS (756-6397)				Comverge Technologies, Inc.
or 610-666-2200					973-360-2220


For Immediate Release
WIRELESS TECHNOLOGY ALLOWS SMALL
ENERGY PRODUCERS NEW METERING OPTION 

(Valley Forge, PA - September 6, 2001) - PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.,
administrator of the world's largest competitive wholesale energy market and
operator of the electric grid for the mid-Atlantic region, and Comverge
Technologies, a global data communications company, today announced a program
that provides small energy producers a low-cost, secure wireless connection to
PJM's information systems.

PJM and Comverge Technologies have formed a partnership to create systems to
allow direct communication of metered information from small energy producers
(100KW to 10MW) using wireless cellular technology. These energy producers,
which include renewable sources such as windmill, solar and small hydro
facilities, may not have been able to fully participate in PJM's markets because
of the capital equipment costs and investment in communications infrastructure.
In addition to the lower costs, small energy producers will benefit from the
"instant-on" capabilities of the wireless communications network that allows for
rapid deployment of new customer connections.

 "PJM's partnership with Comverge Technologies supports our goal to continually
strengthen our technological capabilities so we can offer more choices to our
market participants," said Phillip G. Harris, PJM President and Chief Executive
Officer.  "This program will allow for greater participation in the mid-Atlantic
region's energy market."

"PJM's commitment to increasing reliability and advancing technical solutions
such as the Comverge Distributed Connection for distributed generation
monitoring and dispatch is critical to advancing in the changing energy
marketplace," said Frank Magnotti, Comverge President.

The technology consists of interfacing the customers' revenue meter at the
customers' site with the Comverge Distributed Communications device
communicating over a cellular network, then securely through the Internet into
the master supervisory control and data acquisition system at PJM. Some of the
benefits for the user include: non-proprietary hardware/software interfaces;
industry standard protocols; economic equipment and communications costs;
multiple suppliers for customer equipment; rapid deployment; and modular
approach. The technology allows PJM to communicate with a broad range of
external customers and combine the acquisition of real time and revenue
information into one system. In short, the program simplifies the complex task
of interfacing to external customer equipment.

PJM, the country's only fully functioning regional transmission organization,
operates the world's largest competitive wholesale electricity market and one of
North America's largest power grids. The company currently coordinates a pooled
generating capacity of more than 58,000 megawatts and operates a wholesale
electricity market with more than 200 market buyers, sellers and traders of
electricity. PJM has administered more than $5 billion in energy and energy
service trades since the regional markets opened in 1997. More than 70 nations
have sent delegates to PJM to learn about the market model and the operation of
the grid in the mid-Atlantic states. Visit PJM at www.pjm.com.

Comverge Technologies, a subsidiary of Data Systems & Software Inc.
(NASDAQ:DSSI), is the "new power in power technologies" providing over 5000 MW
of peak load reduction to over 450 energy companies worldwide. Comverge provides
end-to-end, two-way communication solutions including automated meter reading,
utility and/or customer controlled appliance cycling, outage detection, load
profiling, home automation, environmental monitoring and distributed generation
monitoring. Comverge is headquartered in Florham Park, NJ, with offices,
research facilities, representatives and agents around the world. For more
information visit Comverge's website at www.comverge-tech.com. In addition to
the energy product solutions business conducted through Comverge, DSSI is a
provider of computer consulting and development services, and is an authorized
direct seller and value added reseller of computer hardware. 

# # #





Opinions expressed in this e-mail are those of the originating
sender, not those of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.

The information transmitted is intended only for the individuals
to which it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or
privileged material.  Any review, retransmission, dissemination
or other use of, or taking of any action in reliance upon, this
information by persons or entities other than the intended
recipient(s) is prohibited.  If you received this in error,
please contact the sender and delete the material from any
computer.

To unsubscribe from this list, send an e-mail to
majordomo@majordomo.pjm.com
containing only the following line in the body of the e-mail:

unsubscribe pjm-media


