Received: from nahou-msmbx03v.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.41]) by napdx-msmbx01v.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.1600);
	 Fri, 13 Jul 2001 12:58:23 -0700
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4418.65
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: RE: Testing PreSchedule Workspace-June20
Date: Fri, 13 Jul 2001 14:58:20 -0500
Message-ID: <17DA47EFF9AD8641A77B032C4B680E1405422E@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <17DA47EFF9AD8641A77B032C4B680E1405422E@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: Testing PreSchedule Workspace-June20
Thread-Index: AcELC5ltVo+lJPP0SsaAV93mN60JeAAyMfAw
From: "Smith, Will" <Will.Smith@ENRON.com>
To: "Semperger, Cara" <Cara.Semperger@ENRON.com>,
	"Atta, Asem" <Asem.Atta@ENRON.com>
Cc: "Bentley, Corry" <Corry.Bentley@ENRON.com>,
	"Poston, David" <David.Poston@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Will.Smith@ENRON.com

Cara,

My comments...

Alias Tables:
Vish is making some changes to Table Edit.  As soon as he is done I will demo it for you.  Showing the counterparty name rather than the code is no problem.

Routing Errors:
Asem is looking into the "Term Code" errors.

Path Confimation:
1.  To alleviate some of the time issues, we will attempt to log all errors on a record rather than only the first error.  Also, we will be trying to find the bottleneck in the confirm process.

2.  Asem is looking into the "Variant Conversion" errors.

3.A.  I believe the full path is being displayed, but you are not able to see it because the column needs to be sized larger.  I will have Vish auto-size that column

3.B.  Vish is working on this.

3.C.  Vish is working on this.

Regards,
Will



 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Semperger, Cara  
Sent:	Thursday, July 12, 2001 2:48 PM
To:	Smith, Will; Atta, Asem
Cc:	Bentley, Corry; Poston, David
Subject:	Testing PreSchedule Workspace-June20

Good Afternoon;

I have spent the last 3 1/2 hours working in the preschedule workspace dealing with June 20th, delivery points West Wing, Mead 230, Craig, Four Corners 345, Midway-PSC. These are small points that are complicated and use transmission for the paths.  Here is the completed PSW sheet for your analysis.

 << File: Rockies_June_20.psc >> 


What worked:

Routing worked at Midway, which was a shaped hourly schedule, expressed as a shaped hourly schedule on the sheet. Craig routed, and So did Four Corners. 

Path Confirmation: still took over an hour to run,  but data is populated in the system now.  Please see my notes below for what did not work. From my preliminary view, the data appears to be correct, but I am going to leave final determination of the usability of this format for the decision of Bill Williams III and our real time group.  I was able to do some sorting and things look really good. The speed of the sort and pulling up batch info looks great.



What did not work:


Routing: West Wing and Mead did not route,  I got errors on 46 rows "Error: Invalid Routing Term Code".  The Term Column says DAY.  Does this error message reflect some other error?

Alias Tables: We seem to have a major disconnect between our original intention and what is going on here.  The original intention  is that if the scheduler sheet says "PINW" instead of "PINNACLEWE", the program will understand that and populate all schedules with PINW in  the proper counterparty of Pinnacle West in the Confirm View.  Right now, the sheet is omitting the paths without the ENPOWER long name, and using the aliases as counterparty names in the Path Confirmation VIEW.  The Path Confirmation View should give the Long Name that we see in Table Edit Field "Counterparty". The Alias list is to help schedulers not have to use really long and cryptic acronyms when dealing with multiple paths.  Please call me so that we can talk about this ,  it seems like we are totally not understanding each other here.

Path Confirmation: 
	1.Each time I ran my confirmation button, it took an hour, I would find an error, and run it again, it took another hour, I would see another error, and it took another 	hour.  3 hours to run one little sheet is no good. 

	2. Path confirmation also omitted 4 schedules with the error of "Invalid Variant Type Conversion".  The common thread in all of these paths is that they are 	generated at one point, and have transmission deals, and end up at a different point.  All transmission deals are entered properly in the sheet. These are lines 12-14 	and line 35 in the attached sheet.

	3. The data that has populated into the Confirmation system has problems.  

		A.  For each Counterparty,  we need to see the ENTIRE path.  Not just what is in the portion that the marketer has above or below them.

		B. The confirming of each path must be able to be done quickly.  Double clicking the path, waiting two minutes and then populating a name is too long. 		Currently in Lotus, the operator holds down the shift key, and mouse clicks on each path that is confirmed with the counterparty.  This puts a check by 		each line. The operator then clicks "Confirm" and the dialog box with the time stamp and field for name appears.  When the name is populated and the 		operator clicks "OK"  each path is confirmed as a batch.

		C. The name that appears when I look up "Party" should be the long name that appears in the table edit field "Counterparty".  The phone number should 		also populate on that line, as well as the check box if it is checked. This is consistent with what we have now. The name that appears now is the Enpower 		short name or the alias.

	
Other functions will be evaluated tomorrow.  I have a meeting for the remainder of the day, but will be available tomorrow for some testing.  I have committments until 9 am or so.  


