Received: from nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.237]) by napdx-msmbx03p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Sun, 7 Apr 2002 23:25:46 -0800
Received: from NAHOU-MSMSW05P.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.226]) by nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Mon, 8 Apr 2002 01:25:32 -0600
Received: from mailman.enron.com (unverified) by NAHOU-MSMSW05P.corp.enron.com
 (Content Technologies SMTPRS 4.2.5) with ESMTP id <T5a0a863575c0a86ee241c@NAHOU-MSMSW05P.corp.enron.com> for <mswerzb@exchange.enron.com>;
 Mon, 8 Apr 2002 01:25:09 -0600
Received: from baschny.de (218-169-225-13.dynamic.hinet.net [218.169.225.13])
        by mailman.enron.com (8.11.4/8.11.4/corp-1.06) with ESMTP id g343Bbl75127
        for <mswerzb@enron.com>; Mon, 8 Apr 2002 02:24:31 -0500 (CDT)
Message-ID: <BHBNNEHAAOMPOJGJBNLJCPHHANAA.velasquezff@asklinx.dircon.co.uk>
From: "Janell Velasquez" <velasquezff@asklinx.dircon.co.uk>
To: mswerzb@enron.com
Subject: Will This SmallCap Shine?
Date: Mon, 8 Apr 2002 07:47:34 +0000
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable

Martin Nutraceuticals, Inc.(OTC: MTNU) 
A Family of Nutraceuticals Developed to Enhance the Pleasure of Life and 
Lifestyle. (Source: Company Website) 

Current Price: 0.085 

Will This One Explode Higher From Here? If you Think So, You May Want to 
Take Action At The Open Tomorrow... 

INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS: (Source: Recent News Releases) 

A)Martin Nutraceuticals Announces Product Launch for Quebec- Established 
July 15th, 2005 as the launch date for Martin products to be available in 
the province of Quebec. The products being prepared are: 

1) Oxygenol(tm) - The world's most power antioxidant 
formula. This will be available in liquid and capsules. 

2) Arithrizyme(tm) - A systemic oral enzyme formula that 
helps to fight inflammatory conditions such as arthritis, 
sports injuries and Fibromyalgia. 

3) Maximum Slim(tm) - An all natur4l weight management 
formula that promotes healthy fat l0ss. 

B)Martin Nutraceuticals Announces Clinical Trail Results for Weight L0ss and 
Obesity Control With New Product- In this 4-week clinical trial, half the 
patients were given 6 Maximum Slim(tm) capsules -- two with every meal, and 
the other half were given a placebo. The group using Maximum Slim(tm) lost 
an average of 3% body fat, while the placebo group averaged less than 0.5% 
body fat. 


C)Martin Nutraceuticals Inc. Announces Retail Expansion- Martin 
Nutraceuticals Inc. is pleased to announce the completion of negotiations 
that will place Martin products in retail outlets, chain stores and 
warehouse distribution centers as soon as the end of the second quarter, 
beginning of the third quarter. 


ABOUT MTNU (Source: Company Website) 

In 1989, The Foundation for Innovation in Medicine coined the term 
"nutraceutical" to give identity to a highly promising area of health and 
medicine. Since then, the nutraceutical market has become a highly 
respected industry for supplement health, averaging a 7% increase year over 
year for the last 5 years. 

Martin Nutraceuticals was a natural progression that started from the 
inception of bettering the lifestyle of people. Since, Martin 
Nutraceuticals has created a family of complimentary medicine and 
supplementation that has helped thousands of people suffering from arthritis 
and general joint pain, poor circulation, tiredness, obesity and digestive 
complications. 


Please Watch This One Trade. These little stocks can surprise in a big way 
sometimes.... 
_______________________________ 

Information within this email contains "forward looking statements" within 
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21B of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements that express or involve 
discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, 
projections, objectives, goals, assumptions or future events or performance 
are not statements of historical fact and may be "forward looking 
statements."Forward looking statements are based on expectations, estimates 
and projections at the time the statements are made that involve a number of 
risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results or events to differ 
materially from those presently anticipated. Forward looking statements in 
this action may be identified through the use of words such as "projects", 
"foresee", "expects", "will," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," 
"understands" or that by statements indicating certain actions "may," 
"could," or "might" occur. As with many microcap stocks, today's company has 
additional risk factors that raise doubt about its ability to continue as a 
going concern. Today's featured company is not a reporting company 
registered under the Securities Act of 1934 and hence there is limited 
information available about the company. Other factors include a limited 
operating history,a nominal cash position, an accumulated deficit since its 
inceptiion,a negative net worth and no revenues in its most recent 
quarter. It is not currently an operating company. The company is going to 
need financing. If that financing does not occur,the company may not be 
able to continue as a going concern in which case you could lose your entire 
investment. Other risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, 
the ability of the Company to complete its business plan,reliance on key 
personnel, market conditions, the general acceptance of the Company's 
products and technologies, competitive factors, timing, and other risks 
associated with their business. The publisher of this newsletter does not 
represent that the information contained in this message states all material 
facts or does not omit a material fact necessary to make the statements 
therein not misleading. All information provided within this email pertaining 
to investing, stocks, securities must be understood as information provided 
and not investment advice. The publisher of this newsletter advises all 
readers and subscribers to seek advice from a register3d professional 
securities representative before deciding to trade in stocks featured within 
this email. None of the material within this report shall be construed as 
any kind of investment advice or solicitation.Many of these companies are on 
the verge of bankruptcy. You can lose all your money by investing in this 
stock. The publisher of this newsletter is not a reg1stered investment 
advis0r. Subscribers should not view information herein as legal, tax, 
accounting or investment advice. Any reference to past performance(s) of 
companies are specially selected to be referenced based on the favorable 
performance of these companies. You would need perfect timing to acheive the 
results in the examples given. There can be no assurance of that happening. 
Remember, as always, past performance is never indicative of future results 
and a thorough due diligence effort, including a review of a company's 
filings when available, should be completed prior to investing. In 
compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, Section17(b), The publisher of 
this newsletter is contracted to receive fifty thousand dollars from a 
third party, not an officer, director or affiliate shareholder for the 
circulation of this report. Be aware of an inherent conflict of interest 
resulting from such compensation due to the fact that this is a paid 
advertisement and is not without bias.The party that paid us has a position 
in the stock they will sell at anytime without notice. This could have a 
negative impact on the price of the stock, causing you to lose money. All 
factual information in this report was gathered from public sources, 
including but not limited to Company Websites, Information Statements and 
Company Press Releases. The publisher of this newsletter believes this 
information to be reliable but can make no guarantee as to its accuracy or 
completeness. Use of the material within this email constitutes your 
acceptance of these terms. 

