Received: from nahou-msmbx03v.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.41]) by NAHOU-MSMBX01V with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.1600);
	 Thu, 12 Jul 2001 13:53:21 -0500
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4418.65
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: FW: New Iowa Pipeline
Date: Thu, 12 Jul 2001 13:53:21 -0500
Message-ID: <17DA47EFF9AD8641A77B032C4B680E14180C0A@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <17DA47EFF9AD8641A77B032C4B680E14180C0A@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: New Iowa Pipeline
Thread-Index: AcEK+vnNDjXeDXbuEdWxEgBQi+MJ2QACI98g
From: "Brennan, Lorna" <Lorna.Brennan@ENRON.com>
To: "Chavez, Gabriel" <Gabriel.Chavez@ENRON.com>,
	"Gadd, Eric" <Eric.Gadd@ENRON.com>,
	"Hyatt, Kevin" <Kevin.Hyatt@ENRON.com>,
	"Millar, John" <John.Millar@ENRON.com>,
	"Ratner, Michael" <Michael.Ratner@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Lorna.Brennan@ENRON.com

Eric,

FYI--One of the Iowa congresswomen told us BP was out in her district buying r-o-w in her district in northeastern Iowa.  This appears to answer the question of what is going on.  What is our status of involvement in the Alaskan Gas scene?

Lorna

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Stanton, Lon  
Sent:	Thursday, July 12, 2001 12:49 PM
To:	Miller, Mary Kay; Nelson, Michel; Neubauer, Dave; McGowan, Mike W.; Fossum, Drew; Talcott, Jim; Porter, Gregory J.; Gilbert, Tom; Poock, Brian; team.waterloo plant@enron.com; Dushinske, John; Brennan, Lorna; Lehan, Tom; Shepherd, Richard; Jensen, Beth
Subject:	New Iowa Pipeline

Here is some additional information that we picked up regarding the pipeline right-of-way acquisition or discussion activities said to be going on in Iowa and it seems to fit the North American Natural Gas Pipeline Group project.   This is prompting some talk by legislators to try again in the next session of the Iowa Legislature to toughen up Iowa's condemnation laws.   Should this in anyway influence what we contemplating in regard to the Iowa land restoration rules?

--It would not be an oil line
--Prudhoe Bay would be the source of supply
--It could involve a partnership of BP, Phillips and Exxon
--Its route would be to the northeast of Alliance pipeline
--It could be as large as a 50" line
--Its could be about a $10B project

This seems to fit this project:

Alaskan Gas Pipeline Project
Phillips Alaska, Inc.
ExxonMobil Production Company
BP Exploration (Alaska) Inc.
23 April 2001


AlasCan Group Wins Conceptual
Engineering Work for Alaska Pipeline

DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 23, 2001--The North American Natural Gas Pipeline Group (NANGPG), a consortium of ExxonMobil, BP and Phillips, has awarded a conceptual engineering contract for a multi-billion dollar pipeline that will stretch from Alberta to Chicago, Illinois, to a five-company joint venture called The AlasCan Group. The group includes Kellogg Brown & Root, Colt Engineering Corporation, Natchiq, NANA/Colt Engineering, and Michael Baker Corp. The conceptual engineering work will allow the client to submit regulatory and environmental permits required to the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and Canada's National Energy Board so that the project can proceed.

The approximately 1,800-mile stretch of pipeline, designated the Alberta to Market segment by NANGPG, runs from near Edmonton, Alberta, to Chicago. This pipeline is part of NANGPG's plan to deliver natural gas from Prudhoe Bay to the lower 48 states and is a continuation of the pipeline from Prudhoe Bay to Alberta. The project will consist of a large diameter pipeline with compressor stations and related facilities.

The work will be executed in Colt's offices in Calgary, Canada, with participation of specialists from the five organizations.

Kellogg Brown & Root is an international, technology-based engineering and construction company providing a full spectrum of industry-leading services to the hydrocarbon, chemical, energy, and forest products industries. The company is a business unit of Halliburton Company, the world's largest provider of products and services to the petroleum and energy industries. The company's World Wide Web site can be accessed at www.halliburton.com.

Colt Engineering Corporation, Canada's largest hydrocarbon engineering contractor, provides multi-discipline engineering, procurement, construction management and construction services to the upstream and downstream oil and gas industries in North America and internationally. Colt employs over 2,000 people in Canada and Alaska and has specialized expertise in arctic project development and large diameter transmission pipeline systems. Additional information is available at www.colteng.com

Michael Baker Corporation (AMEX:BKR) provides engineering and energy expertise for public and private sector clients worldwide. The firm's primary services include engineering design for the transportation and civil infrastructure markets, operation and maintenance of oil and gas production facilities, architecture, environmental services, and construction management. Baker employs more than 3,700 in over 30 offices across the United States and internationally. For additional information, please visit www.mbakercorp.com.

Natchiq Inc., a subsidiary of the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, is one of the country's leading providers of engineering, construction and support services to the global energy industry. The Engineering News Record has consistently ranked Natchiq as one of the top 15 petroleum contractors in the nation.

NANA/Colt Engineering, LLC is an Alaska based company providing engineering, procurement, and construction management services to the Alaska oil and gas industry. NANA/Colt Engineering, LLC also supports the non-oil sector with a full spectrum of engineering and construction management related services.

©2001 Bloomberg L.P. All rights reserved.


