Received: from nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.237]) by NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Wed, 26 Sep 2001 09:42:15 -0500
Received: from corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.224]) by nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Wed, 26 Sep 2001 09:42:15 -0500
Received: from mailman.enron.com (unverified) by corp.enron.com
 (Content Technologies SMTPRS 4.2.1) with ESMTP id <T563a4d58eec0a86ee0698@corp.enron.com> for <jreitme@exchange.enron.com>;
 Wed, 26 Sep 2001 09:42:15 -0500
Received: from is1.utmb.edu (mx2.utmb.edu [129.109.195.2])
	by mailman.enron.com (8.11.4/8.11.4/corp-1.06) with ESMTP id f8QEgEk07143
	for <jreitme@enron.com>; Wed, 26 Sep 2001 09:42:14 -0500 (CDT)
Received: from exchange3.utmb.edu ([129.109.52.245])
 by is1.utmb.edu (PMDF V6.0-24 #38124)
 with ESMTP id <0GK900CASY2AB6@is1.utmb.edu> for jreitme@enron.com; Wed,
 26 Sep 2001 09:39:46 -0500 (CDT)
Received: by exchange3 with Internet Mail Service (5.5.2653.19)
	id <TVP64Q80>; Wed, 26 Sep 2001 09:41:19 -0500
Content-return: allowed
Date: Wed, 26 Sep 2001 09:41:04 -0500
From: "Martin, Bert R." <brmartin@utmb.edu>
Subject: Daily & Dad
To: "'John@DailyDevotional'" <johnaa@pdq.net>,
   "'Andrea Frost'" <apazfrost@yahoo.com>,
   "'Barbara Hankins'" <blhankins@att.net>,
   "'Bill Herman'" <wild.willy@gateway.net>, "'Bryan Lamb'" <bslamb@aol.com>,
   "'Dan Paz'" <pazman99@att.net>, "'Dar'" <kz642@yahoo.com>,
   "'Dave Paz'" <DPpaz@aol.com>,
   "'Dennis Fassetta'" <Dennis.Fassetta@IngramMicro.com>,
   "'Jay Reitmeyer'" <jreitme@enron.com>,
   "'Jim & Nancye @ Home'" <jn.ranch@verizon.net>,
   "'Joe Tinker_(of Houston)'" <jdawgtinkers@juno.com>,
   "'Little Sister'" <carol@stmaustin.org>,
   "'Mary Jeanne'" <mjm_bales@yahoo.com>,
   "'NancyE'" <Nancye.Abbott@archongroup.com>,
   "'Renee'" <r.m.dickerson@att.net>, "'Ricardo Paz'" <rpaz@worldnet.att.net>,
   "McConnell, Robert G. (Mac)" <rgmcconn@utmb.edu>,
   "Hoecker, Shelley A." <sahoecke@utmb.edu>,
   "McConnell, Susan W." <swmcconn@utmb.edu>,
   "'Ted Mora'" <morajtjr@yahoo.com>, "'Tim Martin'" <mrgrill@flash.net>,
   "Rappaport, Beth A." <brappapo@utmb.edu>,
   "Smith, Bobby R." <brsmith@utmb.edu>,
   "Pourchot, Chad E." <cpourcho@utmb.edu>,
   "Arredondo, Cristina A." <cmarredo@utmb.edu>,
   "Martin, Elizabeth" <emartin@utmb.edu>,
   "Ohalete, Isaac C." <icohalet@utmb.edu>,
   "Gonzalez, Jane E." <jegonzal@utmb.edu>,
   "Bartlett, Linda M." <lbartlet@utmb.edu>,
   "Enriquez, Lucy" <lenrique@utmb.edu>, "Berlin, Martha" <mberlin@utmb.edu>,
   "Koleosho, Olusanya J." <okoleosh@utmb.edu>,
   "'Rick Stouffer'" <rstouff@med.unc.edu>
Message-id: <3AA577EC7326D511A6AA00D0B79E8C680495B130@exchange1>
MIME-version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Internet Mail Service (5.5.2653.19)
Content-type: text/plain; charset=iso-8859-1
Return-Path: brmartin@utmb.edu

Who says the power of prayer doesn't work? I am happy to report that my
dad's hip doesn't seem to be broken after all. The x-rays, and CAT scan show
no signs of a fracture, even though all symptoms indicated such a break. His
pain is gone and this morning he was able to "stand up" in the hospital
room. Later today they are going to do an MRI and a Bone Scan on him to see
what might have caused the pain and lack of movement in his leg. Please
continue to keep Gordon Martin in your prayers, and, Praise God that his hip
is not broken!
-bert-

Promises 
by Dr. Bill Bright 
September 26, 2001
His Word Remains Forever 
Scripture: Matthew 24:36-42
<http://bible.gospelcom.net/bible?language=english&version=NIV&passage=Matth
ew+24:36-42> 
35 "Heaven and earth will disappear, but my words remain forever" 
42 "Therefore keep watch, because you do not know on what day your Lord will
come."

Commentary: In a day of change and turmoil, the promise is made that the
word of God will stand forever. The significance of that guarantee is
monumental, incredible. It is not just that a book shall remain in print;
rather, it is that the multitudinous truths contained in that book likewise
will remain in effect steadfast and true. 
Long after heaven and earth have passed away God's holy Word will continue
to endure. 
That should mean much to you and me in our daily walk. God's promise, "All
things work together for good," to the believer is just as true today as it
was when it was written centuries ago. 
In fact, every one of the promises in the Word of God - including the 365
referred to in this daily devotional - is bona fide, guaranteed by the God
of the universe, the Creator of all things. That alone should strengthen our
faith to know that we can trust him supremely with our lives and everything
concerned with them. 
When all else fails, when hope is almost gone, we can come back to the Word
of God, which is "quick and powerful and sharper than a two-edged sword." It
will have the answer for every problem, every burden, every need we face.
Prayer: The hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will
worship the Father in spirit and truth. O God, the author of peace, to know
You is eternal life and to serve You is perfect freedom: Defend us, Your
humble servants, in all assaults of our enemies; that we, trusting in Your
defense, may not fear the power of any adversaries; through the might of
Jesus Christ our Lord. We celebrate our creation, preservation, and all the
blessings of this life; but above all for Your immeasurable love in the
redemption of the world by our Lord Jesus Christ; for the means of grace,
and for the hope of glory. And, we pray, give us such an awareness of Your
mercies, that with truly thankful hearts we may show forth Your praise, not
only with our lips, but in our lives, by giving up our selves to Your
service, and by walking before You in holiness and righteousness all our
days; through Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom, with You and the Holy Spirit,
be honor and glory throughout all ages. Amen. 

TODAY'S ACTION POINT: I will place my complete confidence in God's
unchanging Word and will rest upon His faithful promises to all believers
for supernatural living. 
Praise Report and Prayer Requests:
I want to express my gratitude to everyone for their prayers for Jack. He
did have his surgery last Tuesday. He made it through but is still in
intensive care and it was confirmed that the cancer has spread to his liver.
His chemo will be postponed till he is well enough to get into a room then
to his home. His recovery is slow but he did come off the ventilator Sunday
and actually took a drink of Sprite today--huge progress, praise God. I'd
like to put Wayne Owens on the prayer list also. As you know Wayne had renal
cancer about 5 or 6 years ago. He has been having muscular pain in his legs
and throughout his body--the pain was so severe he had to stop all athletic
activity. The doctors do not think it is cancer. Thank you sweet John. I
will keep you updated on both of these wonderful people. Brenda 

Hi John: An update on Dave... is back in intensive care after brain
surgery.. leak of brain fluid, had to be drained and now has
infection...must clear up infection, then they will put in a shunt to keep
fluid off the brain...we ask the Lord to continue to bless Dave with courage
to endure the pain and headaches and faith that that he will be allowed to
complete his mission here on earth.... The Lord never said this journey on
earth would be easy: he just said it would be worth it. 

I want to share a cute story that a friend passed on to me. He teaches
seminary each day to our youth.. A Sunday school teacher asked each student
if they knew another word for happiness. The word he was looking for was
Joy. Then he told the students to take each letter.. J is for Jesus, O is
for others, and Y is for yourself. The secret for having happiness in your
life is to put Jesus first, others next, and yourself last. Thought you
might want to pass this on to all our friends. Have a great day! Love, MJ 

Good Morning, Please keep my father, Gordon Martin, in your prayers today.
Yesterday was his 81st birthday, and to celebrate...he broke his hip! He was
sitting in his chair and tried to "get up" and hurt his hip area. He was
able to walk around yesterday and last night with a cane, but during the
night his right leg stiffened and was unable to move it this morning. His
doctor (Warren Longmire, who still makes house calls) came by this morning
and was almost 100% sure he had broken his hip. Dad is now at Clear Lake
Area Hospital with my Mom and a couple of my sisters. -bert- 
PRAYER LIST: (Pray for our brothers and sisters each day)*override*
Gordon Martin (On his 81st birthday fell...is suspected of having a broken
his hip!.. is now at Clear Lake Area Hospital ..Dr. Warren Longmire will
confirm if the hip is broken today.) 

Lisa Smotts - (Cancer - Please pray the prayer of agreement (That The Lords
Will, Will Be Done) with me and that the Lord will be glorified- Lisa.)
Doug Collings - (Nerve Disorder-Pray For Courage & Determination-Headaches
getting worse! Doug was told by doctors 9/11 that there was no hope...we
know different!)
Elaine Collings - (Sever back pain - osteoporious - bone deterioration is
severe - has seen some improvement and is seeing a chiropractor.)
Jim Tirayoh - (Kidney failure dialysis treatments 3 times a week-Great
Attitude-Loves The Lord)
Martha Humphries - (Lung Cancer- Breast Cancer -Surgery completed - last
radiation treatment on 8/31..Returns for check ups once a month. Home in
good spirits.)
Jeannie - (Leukemia - has qualified to new study - is doing so well on her
Glivac therapy for her leukemia that her blood counts are almost normal! )
Stefanie Jolliff (scoliosis - S curvature of the spine - Steffi has
faithfully worn her back brace for the past full year for 17 to 23 hours
each day...pretty tough for a spunky 15 year old teenager - great progress
being made - keep Steffi in your prayers.)
Herta Boehl (Muscular Dystrophy - Lives by herself - reconciliation with son
Norman has happened unbelievable attitude!)
Susan Blackburn (Breast cancer-surgery completed and she has begun recovery
- passed the halfway point with her chemo. Four more treatments followed by
radiation. She has really stepped it up at her new job which is paying
dividends. Her spirits are good - has joined us for prayer, praise &
worship!)
Steve & Beth (Steve is trying to regulate his meds so that he won't reject
his new liver and his immune system will still be strong enough to battle
the Hep C virus.)
John ( Alpha One lung disease and needs a transplant-has been accepted for a
transplant at Methodist in Houston.)
Monica Menier (has a rare genetic disease - is deaf and is slowly going
blind. Married -two small girls. Loves the Lord -is believing for her
healing -Pray in agreement with her for her healing.)
Karen Madison -Her Mother-Husband -Extended Family -(Mother has
hypothyroidism -requesting prayer for this family for strength,
determination, focus, love, peace and healing.)
Thomas Carey (Heroin addiction - the family is devastated - in prison - Pray
for Thomas and his family.)
Beccy Ackelson (Cancer - home from the hospital -checkup completed and the
cancer does not seem to have spread! - requests our prayers.)
Victor de los Santos (Kidney failure - home - working - will be taking
dialysis until a kidney transplant is available-is back in hospital with
some sort of infection.) 
Amber Voss (diagnosed with Ewing Sarcoma, a form of bone cancer - friend of
Helen J. Harrison-Requests prayer!)
Kathy Stickney (Lift up Kathy as she provides support, leadership and
comfort to her daughter Leah and her children and her son-in-law Adam Ford
during these very difficult times.) 
Leslie Jenkins (Tumors have re-appeared on her liver and colon - she remains
faith filled that this will all work for the good. May be a candidate for
some type of experimental treatment.)
Mrs. Humble (Bob Humble's 80 year young mother-leg amputated below the
knee-needs prayer for encouragement. Mrs. Humble is now eating again and has
a fresh new attitude about the whole thing. Bob and his family look to the
Lord for His will!)
Cindy Hogman (32 year old mother - diagnosed with stage 4 cervical cancer-
pray for healing -pray for her husband Nick Hogman.) 
Bill Corey (Lou Gherig's disease - Surgery was successful - no melanoma was
discovered on his back. Wife Mary also needs our prayers!)
Nicholle(Coco). (Daughter of Debbie Harrison-has found a lump in her
breast,and will go in on the 1st of Sept for an Ultra sound.. test reveal NO
Hepititis..waiting for other testing results.)
Jan Klinck & Family (airplane crash just outside of San Antonio-in ICU at
Brooke Army Medical Hospital Burn Center in San Antoino, Texas. Jan is
responding well to treatment and surgery. Great Report on 9/22. Continue to
pray for Jan, his doctors and the entire family!)
Dr. John E and wife Jeannie ( lost his physicians license due to alcoholism
-Jeannie is in
12 step program and is back with John since a recent seizure while drinking
on anti-seizure meds. He is now determined to stop drinking. Jeannie
recently commented that "God is doing for me what I cannot do for myself.
Each day, I must start fresh".) 
Jennifer (recently gave up her sobriety to try it her way; but, is now in
phone contact with another lady in AA with over 30 years sober. Pray for her
willingness to give her drinking to God. ). 
Dave (recently suffered a massive stroke-has not been able to relieve the
headaches and blurred vision-brain surgery 9/20- is back in intensive care
after brain surgery.. leak of brain fluid-they will put in a shunt to keep
fluid off the brain.)
Alex Morozov (5 months old-out of surgery. Alex is off a respirator and
doing better. They identified the "parent" tumor and removed it. He is
stable for now. Pray for Alex, Ivan and Galina, his parents.)
Luciana Hernandez (Young woman diagnosed as having lupus. Pray for Luciana
and her friends and family as they seek the Lords will and healing for
Luciana.)
Franki T (Her 17 year old son has run away, she has two other children to
care for, the circumstances have been confusing at best...her mental and
physical condition are fragile at this time-she was admitted to the mental
facilities over the weekend..pray for Franki)
Zachary Sisk (Zackary has Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy..with all of this,
Zackary has graduated from high school. Zackary needs our prayers each day
for strength, determination and a willingness to continue the struggle. Pray
for his family that stands firmly by him each day.)
Tim (Tim moved out of his mother's Houston apartment last year and at age 23
is living on his own in Chicago. He has been in treatment centers twice for
drug and alcohol addiction. He and his dad have re-established contact.)
Jack Henney (has colon cancer- made it through surgery but is still in
intensive care and it was confirmed that the cancer has spread to his
liver-His chemo will be postponed till he is well enough to get into a room
then to his home.)
Florence Docktor (Florence is 82 and lives by herself. She has been having
problems lately and has been diagnosed with cancer. She is meeting with her
family to decide what course of action to take in her battle. Pray for this
entire family.)
Mark Pennell (Is among the many reservists that are or may be going to be
called to active duty. We want to lift up all of these folks and celebrate
the protection our Lord is providing for each.)
Donna Brooks (Donnas' son Jerry committed suicide on 9/17. She needs our
prayers as she reaches out to find confort in the Lord) 
Wayne Owens (had cancer several years ago-has been having muscular pain in
his legs and throughout his body--the pain was so severe he had to stop all
athletic activity. The doctors do not think it is cancer.)
Prayer Of Healing (by Max Lucado Sent In By Joe Collins)
This prayer was prayed by Max Lucado on Moody radio. He had prayed it in
his church worship service on Sunday.

Dear Lord, We're still hoping we'll wake up. We're still hoping we'll open
a sleepy eye and think, "What a horrible dream." But we won't, will we,
Father? What we saw was not a dream. Planes did gouge towers. Flames did
consume our fortress. People did perish. It was no dream and, dear Father,
we are sad.

There is a ballet dancer who will no longer dance and a doctor who will no
longer heal. A church has lost her priest, a classroom is minus a teacher.
Cora ran a food pantry. Paige was a counselor and Dana, dearest Father,
Dana was only three years old. (Who held her in those final moments?) We
are sad, Father. For as the innocent are buried, our innocence is buried as
well. We thought we were safe. Perhaps we should have known better. But we
didn't.

And so we come to you. We don't ask you for help; we beg you for it. We
don't request it; we implore it. We know what you can do. We've read the
accounts. We've pondered the stories and now we plead, "Do it again, Lord.
Do it again."

Remember Joseph? You rescued him from the pit. You can do the same for us.
Do it again, Lord.
Remember the Hebrews in Egypt? You protected their children from the angel
of death. We have children, too, Lord. Do it again.
And Sarah? Remember her prayers? You heard them. Joshua? Remember his
fears? You inspired him. The women at the tomb? You resurrected their hope.
The doubts of Thomas? You took them away. Do it again, Lord. Do it again.
You changed Daniel from a captive into a king's counselor. You took Peter
the fisherman and made him Peter an apostle. Because of you, David went
from leading sheep to leading armies. Do it again, Lord, for we need
counselors today, Lord. We need apostles. We need leaders. Do it again,
dear Lord.

Most of all, do again what you did at Calvary. What we saw here last
Tuesday, you saw there that Friday. Innocence slaughtered. Goodness
murdered. Mothers weeping. Evil dancing. Just as the smoke eclipsed our
morning, so the darkness fell on your Son. Just as our towers were
shattered, the very Tower of Eternity was pierced. And by dusk, heaven's
sweetest song was silent, buried behind a rock. But you did not waver, O
Lord. You did not waver. After three days in a dark hole, you rolled the
rock and rumbled the earth and turned the darkest Friday into the brightest
Sunday. Do it again, Lord. Grant us a September Easter.

We thank you, dear Father, for these hours of unity. Christians are praying
with Jews. Republicans are standing with Democrats. Skin colors have been
covered by the ash of burning buildings. We thank you for these hours of
unity. And we thank you for these hours of prayer. The Enemy sought to
bring us to our knees and succeeded. He had no idea, however, that we would
kneel before you. And he has no idea what you can do.

Let your mercy be upon our President, Vice President, and their families.
Grant to those who lead us wisdom beyond their years and experience. Have
mercy upon the souls who have departed and the wounded who remain. Give us
grace that we might forgive and faith that we might believe. And look
kindly upon your church. For two thousand years you've used her to heal a
hurting world. Do it again, Lord. Do it again.
Through Christ,
Amen.




thanks...
bert r martin
publications production manager
409.747.7809 office
409.942.6208 alpha pager

 <<...OLE_Obj...>> 



