Received: from nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.237]) by NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Tue, 19 Mar 2002 07:55:31 -0800
Received: from NAHOU-MSMSW04P.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.224]) by nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Tue, 19 Mar 2002 09:54:08 -0600
Received: from mailman.enron.com (unverified) by NAHOU-MSMSW04P.corp.enron.com
 (Content Technologies SMTPRS 4.2.5) with ESMTP id <T5a0a982502c0a86ee241c@NAHOU-MSMSW04P.corp.enron.com> for <mtaylor5@exchange.enron.com>;
 Tue, 19 Mar 2002 09:52:58 -0600
Received: from mailman.enron.com ([218.148.250.171])
        by mailman.enron.com (8.11.4/8.11.4/corp-1.06) with ESMTP id g343Bbl12006
        for <Michael.E.Taylor@enron.com>; Tue, 19 Mar 2002 09:52:20 -0600 (CST)
Received: from craftsmen.enmage.com.br ([206.190.91.8])
 by solder.enmage.com.br (Sun Java System Messaging Server 6.1 HotFix 0.07 (built
 Aug 20 2004)) with ESMTP id <0IBN0009R3SOC176@solder.enmage.com.br> for
 Michael.E.Taylor@enron.com; Tue, 19 Mar 2002 15:04:50 -0200 (IST)
Received: from lithospheric.fastbrakes.com ([205.158.62.105])
 by craftsmen.enmage.com.br (Sun Java System Messaging Server 6.1 HotFix 0.04
 (built Aug 28 2004)) with ESMTP id <0IBN007392XHO0K7@craftsmen.enmage.com.br> for
 Michael.E.Taylor@enron.com (ORCPT Michael.E.Taylor@enron.com); Tue, 19 Mar 2002 19:02:50 +0200 (IST)
Received: from lithospheric ([127.0.0.1]) by lithospheric.fastbrakes.com with Microsoft
 SMTPSVC(6.0.3714.195); Tue, 19 Mar 2002 21:07:50 +0400
Date: Tue, 19 Mar 2002 11:01:50 -0600
From: "Alejandro Moon" <ithajnokryplr@fhmp.every1.net>
Subject: Be a player in the stock game
X-Originating-IP: [213.130.63.235]
To: <Michael.E.Taylor@enron.com>
Message-ID: <436806792763.HNX24251@lithospheric.fastbrakes.com>
MIME-version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Internet Mail Service (5.5.7426.70)
Content-type: text/plain
X-VirusChecked: Checked
X-Env-Sender: holler@enmage.com.br
X-StarScan-Version: 5.7.35; banners=S_FROM_DOMAIN,-,-
Original-recipient: rfc822;Michael.E.Taylor@enron.com

ROCKET STOCKS NEWSLETTER

U R G E N T   I N V E S T O R   A L E R T
 
VNBL STOCK EXPECTED TO EXPLODE!!!
 
Vinoble is the next HOT PLAY in Homeland Security

Symbol: VNBL.OB
Current Price:      	    		$0.1O
Short Term Target Price:    		$O.5O   
12 month Target Price:      		$4.OO


Deserves your immediate attention!!!

The company just bottomed at $0.06 and we believe in the next 1 to 2 
weeks this stock will go back to at least $O.4O
                 

C O M P A N Y   O V E R V I E W
 
Vinoble, Inc. (VNBL.OB) is a holding company, which is identifying and 
acquiring operational business opportunities in the areas of homeland 
security, security information systems, and other security services to 
provide long term growth for its shareholders.

Vinoble believes that the opportunity to build a successful business in 
the security sector is unprecedented.

The terror attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 have 
changed the security landscape for the foreseeable future. Both 
physical 
and logical security have become paramount for all industry segments, 
especially in the banking, healthcare and government sectors. While the 
focus for Vinoble is on North America, the opportunity for security 
services is worldwide. According to Giga, a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Forrester Research, worldwide demand for information security products 
and 
services is set to eclipse $46B by 2005.

Vinoble intends to capitalize on the dramatic growth in the security 
market by delivering professional services, security products, security 
training, and managed security services. In pursuit of this objective, 
Vinoble has assembled a highly qualified team of security professionals 
offering a full range of security services. Through Vinoble's 
consulting services and integrated delivery solutions, Vinoble will 
help 
organizations protect key assets including persons, property, 
information, 
brand, and reputation. 

Homeland Security, the National Strategy for a Secure Cyberspace, the 
Healthcare Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), 
Sarbanes-Oxley and other regulatory programs will all cause a continued 
increase in security demands in the United States and abroad. Vinoble 
intends 
to position itself as the 'most desired' provider of, both, physical 
and information security solutions - in the eyes of our clients, 
alliance 
partners, and peers. We will accomplish this by ensuring our teams are 
the most knowledgeable, agile, professional, and cost-conscious 
provider of 'tailored' security solutions to meet the unique needs of 
each 
client.

Management has partnered with GarcyCo Capital Corp. ("GCCC") to assist 
in finding acquisition candidates for the company, structuring such 
acquisitions, and effecting a transition to corporate growth. At 
present, 
Vinoble and GCCC have targeted several companies as potential 
acquisition candidates. Pending the outcome of due diligence and 
audits, the 
company believes the acquisition of these assets will provide the basis 
required for listing on a national exchange.

 
HERE IS RECENT NEWS ON THE COMPANY:

MALIBU, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 2O, 2OO5--Vinoble, Inc. (OTCBB: 
VNBL - News), a holding company seeking to identify long-term growth 
opportunities in the areas of homeland security, security information 
systems, and other security services, is pleased to announce that as it 
continues in its efforts to reach definitive agreements on the acquisition 
of assets, businesses, and strategic partners in the RFID and GPS 
tracking sector, Vinoble has further engaged with several additional 
businesses and individuals for the purpose of acquiring technology, software, 
and patents. 

Following the move to acquire RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) 
technology, hardware and patents for the sole purpose of specific use 
applications, the Company has concluded that the need for application 
support software or middleware is part of the fundamental component of the 
framework which operates such technology. The Company has identified 
several sources for both licensing and the acquisition of such software, 
and has begun to pursue discussions to access this important element. 

Middleware is used primarily to link disparate applications, both 
internally and externally, to the enterprise. This typically involves 
routing data using different transport protocols, translating data into 
different formats and providing a suitable means of integration such as Web 
services and service-oriented architectures. 

Since RFID is an integral part in the tracking of both mobile and 
non-mobile assets, user-friendly and efficient management software enabling 
customers to manage RFID data both incoming and out-bound is important 
in maintaining customer loyalty and reduces costs associated with 
customer service. Management software will allow for real time visibility of 
assets or product inventory, whether in transit, in a warehouse, at the 
manufacturing plant, or on a store shelf. Visibility and accuracy will 
enable customers to reduce handling costs, gain instant access to 
shipment information and increase inventory flow throughout the supply 
chain. The ability to manage data collection from a number of different RFID 
and GPS devices is essential for proper efficiency of the system. 

The Company believes that such acquisition of middleware technology 
will be essential and will further position Vinoble in the vastly growing 
RFID and GPS tracking industry. The Company's goal is to provide 
critical security services at a cost manageable to even the smallest of 
businesses that can't afford to do without the safety of their personnel and 
assets in this current state of constant threat.

Safe Harbor Statement: This press release contains forward-looking 
statements as defined in The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 
of 
1995 (the "Act"). In particular, when used in the preceding discussion, 
the words "plan," "confident that," "believe," "scheduled," "expect," 
or 
"intend to," and similar conditional expressions are intended to 
identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act and 
are 
subject to the safe harbor created by the Act. Such statements are 
subject 
to certain risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ 
materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Such 
risks 
and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the ability of 
Vinoble to complete the proposed acquisition(s), the results of 
Vinoble's 
due diligence review of the candidate(s), the success of the business 
of 
the acquisition candidate(s), including the ability of Vinoble to 
continue to sell the applicable products and the acceptance of those 
newly 
designed products by the market, market conditions, the general 
acceptance of the Company's products and technologies, competitive 
factors, 
timing, and other risks described in the Company's SEC reports and 
filings. The closing of the transaction will be subject to complete due 
diligence, inspections, and completion of audited financial statements 
in 
accordance to GAAP as required by the SEC prior to consummation. 



We Believe the SPECULATIVE NEAR TERM TARGET PRICE is - $0.5O
We Believe the SPECULATIVE LONG TERM TARGET PRICE -    $4.00

 
We feel this is our best pick since December of 2O04!!

Please Watch this one Trade Wednesday!
 
 
DISCLAIMER:  
Information within this email contains "FORWARD looking statements" 
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and 
Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements that 
express or   involve   discussions with respect to predictions, 
expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, goals, 
assumptions or future 
events or performance are not statements of historical fact and may be 
"FORWARD looking statements."FORWARD looking statements are based on 
expectations, estimates and projections at the time the statements are 
made that involve a number of risks and uncertainties which could cause 
actual results or events to differ materially from those presently 
anticipated. FORWARD looking statements in this action may be 
identified 
through the use of words such as "projects", "foresee", "expects",  
"will,"  "anticipates,"  "estimates," "believes,"  "understands or 
that by 
statements indicating certain actions "may," "could," or "might" occur. 
As with many micro-cap stocks, today's company has additional risk 
factors worth noting. Those factors include: a limited operating 
history, 
the company advancing cash to related parties and a shareholder on an 
unsecured basis: one vendor, a related party through a majority 
stockholder, supplies ninety-seven percent of the company's raw 
materials:  
reliance on two customers for over fifty percent of their business and 
numerous related party transactions and the need to raise capital. 
These 
factors and others are more fully spelled out in the company's SEC 
filings. We urge you to read the filings before you invest.  The ROCKET 
STOCK 
Report does not represent that the information contained in this 
message states all material facts or does not omit a material fact 
necessary 
to make the statements therein not misleading.  All information 
provided within this email pertaining to investing, ST0CKS, securities 
must be 
understood as information provided and not investment advice. The 
ROCKET ST0CK Report advises all readers and subscribers to seek advice 
from 
a registered professional securities representative before deciding to 
trade in STOCKS featured within this email. None of the material within 
this report   shall be construed as any kind of investment advice or 
solicitation. Many of these companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. 
You 
can lose all your MONEY by investing in this STOCK. The publisher of 
The ROCKET STOCK Report is not a registered investment ADVIS0R. 
Subscribers should not view information herein as legal, tax, 
accounting or 
investment advice. Any reference to past performance(s) of companies 
are 
specially selected to be referenced based on the favorable performance 
of 
these companies. You would need perfect timing to achieve the results 
in the examples given.   There can be no assurance of that happening. 
Remember, as always, past performance is never indicative of future 
results and a thorough due diligence effort, including a review of a 
company's filings, should be completed prior to investing. In 
compliance 
with the Securities Act of 1933, Section 17(b), The ROCKET ST0CK Report 
discloses the receipt of twelve thousand D0LLARS from a third party 
(GEM,Inc.), not an officer, director or affiliate  shareholder  for  
the 
circulation  of  this report. GEM, Inc. has a position in the ST0CK 
they 
will sell at any time without notice.  Be aware of an inherent conflict 
of interest resulting from such compensation due to the fact that this 
is a paid advertisement and we are conflicted. All factual information 
in this report was gathered from public sources, including but not 
limited to Company Websites, SEC Filings and Company Press Releases. 
The 
ROCKET ST0CK Report believes this information to be reliable but can 
make 
no guarantee as to its accuracy or completeness. Use of the material 
within this email constitutes your acceptance of these terms.

If you wish to stop future mailings, please mail to  news_let1 @  yahoo.com

