Received: from NAHOU-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.39]) by NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Fri, 19 Oct 2001 13:02:46 -0500
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
Content-Class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: Financial Disclosure of $1.2 Billion Equity Adjustment
Date: Fri, 19 Oct 2001 13:02:44 -0500
Message-ID: <7496C8DC16FAB34AB914989FC183EA820F0F88@NAHOU-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <7496C8DC16FAB34AB914989FC183EA820F0F88@NAHOU-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: Financial Disclosure of $1.2 Billion Equity Adjustment
Thread-Index: AcFYyEFQzP0vxzh1RjSQ81dc/ZBEXg==
From: "Schwieger, Jim" <Jim.Schwieger@ENRON.com>
To: "Lay, Kenneth" <Kenneth.Lay@ENRON.com>,
	"Boardroom" <Boardroom@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Jim.Schwieger@ENRON.com

For the first time in 22 years of service for Enron I'm ashamed to admit that I work for Enron!  I have lost all respect for Enron Senior Management and agree with the Financial Analyst when they say that Enron Senior Management can not be trusted.  Ethics and Morals are either something everyone else needs to have except Senior Management or somewhere along the way Senior Management started believing the end justifies the means.  The communication the Employee's have received over the last few years about values such as Respect, Integrity, Communication and excellence must be propaganda intended to get Employee's to believe Senior Management really supported these values so that no one would really notice that their actions represented something just the opposite.

I can not believe that Senior Management lacks the understanding of human nature to totally ignore the fact that if someone does not trust what you have said in the past you should not try and conceal pertinent information in the future.  Then to allow an Enron Spokesperson to speak for Enron with the statement "It's just a balance-sheet issue"  implies to me that this individual does not know what a Balance Sheet or Income Statement is and certainly should not be speaking to the public.  If you are going to play the game of lying, cheating and stealing at least be intelligent enough to present a plausible story.  To use phrases such as it was a hedge against fluctuating values in some of Enron's broadband telecommunications and other technology investments is a complete insult to my intelligence and to the definition of the word "HEDGE".  A hedge by definition implies that the upside and downside exposure has been limited.  It frightens me that we are out asking customers to let Enron help them "HEDGE" their risk when I'm not sure Enron's Senior Management understands what a hedge means?

I'm also confused as to the personal financial involvement of Andy Fastow in the investment vehicle that generated this write down.  I must be confused in that as a Trader Enron has asked me to sign documents declaring that I will not have any personal financial involvement in anything involving the Natural Gas Business.  This must be an example of as my father used to say " do as I say not as I do"? I guess we need to have audits performed of Senior Managements financial interest to insure their actions are as good as their word?

The fact that Senior Management and the ENE Board of Directors knew these transactions were being used to manipulate earnings and the stock price and took advantage of that knowledge to sell their ENE stock options in my opinion is "CRIMINAL".  It provides me no comfort to know that the biggest perpetrators of this fraud have left Enron in recent months.  These individuals have stolen billions of dollars from ENE stockholders and Employees and need to pay the price for such fraudulent activity.  They are set for life, having all the money they could ever need, while Employees and Stockholders have lost their life savings.  You have completely failed at the job you were hired to perform.  If this type of activity would have occurred farther down the organization no one would hesitate to fire the individuals involved and to institute criminal charges.   

I for one can not wait until the All Employee meeting next week.  I do not think anyone wants to hear about third quarter results because how could we trust what is said anyway.  Instead I feel you owe the ENE Employee's a thorough explanation of how you failed to perform your responsibilities, what actions are going to be taken and most of all apologize for the job performance to date. 



 

