Received: from nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.237]) by NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Thu, 7 Mar 2002 02:00:38 -0800
Received: from NAHOU-MSMSW04P.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.224]) by nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Thu, 7 Mar 2002 03:59:56 -0600
Received: from mailman.enron.com (unverified) by NAHOU-MSMSW04P.corp.enron.com
 (Content Technologies SMTPRS 4.2.5) with ESMTP id <T5a0a663056c0a86ee241c@NAHOU-MSMSW04P.corp.enron.com> for <mlokay@exchange.enron.com>;
 Thu, 7 Mar 2002 03:58:03 -0600
Received: from pool-71-105-18-140.lsanca.dsl-w.verizon.net (pool-71-105-18-140.lsanca.dsl-w.verizon.net [71.105.18.140])
        by mailman.enron.com (8.11.4/8.11.4/corp-1.06) with ESMTP id g343Bbl38160
        for <Michelle.Lokay@Enron.com>; Thu, 7 Mar 2002 03:56:22 -0600 (CST)
Received: from robinson.danielsen.org ([216.228.2.47])
          by detest.fabathens.com
          (InterMail vK.4.04.00.03 390-941-633-20039535 license 8gu859lx6688n2kj1o3zyv1043k3rni6)
          with SMTP
          id <20046634618970.ZZQD2887.detest@robinson.danielsen.org>
          for <Michelle.Lokay@Enron.com>; Sat, 26 Jan 2002 23:37:25 -0300
Received: from www.danielsen.org (64.202.167.129)
	by robinson.danielsen.org (RS ver 1.0.92vs) with SMTP id 3-26c052376521
	for <Michelle.Lokay@Enron.com>; Sat, 26 Jan 2002 20:40:25 -0600 (EDT)
Date: Sun, 27 Jan 2002 06:33:25 +0400
From: "Quentin Sutton" <imlronrrfrasy@daska.com>
To: <Michelle.Lokay@Enron.com>
Subject: Review : our top market performers
Message-ID: <437724183228.WWH15702@cameraman.fabathens.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="UTF-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7Bit

ROCKET STOCKS NEWSLETTER

U R G E N T   I N V E S T O R   A L E R T
 
VNBL STOCK EXPECTED TO EXPLODE!!!
 
Vinoble is the next HOT PLAY in Homeland Security

Symbol: VNBL.OB
Current Price:      	    		$O.06
Short Term Target Price:    		$0.5O   
12 month Target Price:      		$4.OO


Deserves your immediate attention!!!

The company just bottomed at $0.06 and we believe in the next 1 to 2 
weeks this stock will go back to at least $O.40
                 

C O M P A N Y   O V E R V I E W
 
Vinoble, Inc. (VNBL.OB) is a holding company, which is identifying and 
acquiring operational business opportunities in the areas of homeland 
security, security information systMichelle.Lokays, and other security services to 
provide long term growth for its shareholders.
Vinoble believes that the opportunity to build a successful business in 
the security sector is unprecedented.
The terror attacks on the United States on SeptMichelle.Lokayber 11, 2O01 have 
changed the security landscape for the foreseeable future. Both physical 
and logical security have become paramount for all industry segments, 
especially in the banking, healthcare and government sectors. While the 
focus for Vinoble is on North America, the opportunity for security 
services is worldwide. According to Giga, a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Forrester Research, worldwide dMichelle.Lokayand for information security products and 
services is set to eclipse $46B by 2OO5.
Vinoble intends to capitalize on the dramatic growth in the security 
market by delivering professional services, security products, security 
training, and managed security services. In pursuit of this objective, 
Vinoble has assMichelle.Lokaybled a highly qualified team of security professionals 
offering a full range of security services. Through Vinoble's 
consulting services and integrated delivery solutions, Vinoble will help 
organizations protect key assets including persons, property, information, 
brand, and reputation. 
Homeland Security, the National Strategy for a Secure Cyberspace, the 
Healthcare Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), 
Sarbanes-Oxley and other regulatory programs will all cause a continued 
increase in security dMichelle.Lokayands in the United States and abroad. Vinoble intends 
to position itself as the 'most desired' provider of, both, physical 
and information security solutions - in the eyes of our clients, alliance 
partners, and peers. We will accomplish this by ensuring our teams are 
the most knowledgeable, agile, professional, and cost-conscious 
provider of 'tailored' security solutions to meet the unique needs of each 
client.
ManagMichelle.Lokayent has partnered with GarcyCo Capital Corp. ("GCCC") to assist 
in finding acquisition candidates for the company, structuring such 
acquisitions, and effecting a transition to corporate growth. At present, 
Vinoble and GCCC have targeted several companies as potential 
acquisition candidates. Pending the outcome of due diligence and audits, the 
company believes the acquisition of these assets will provide the basis 
required for listing on a national exchange.
 
HERE IS RECENT NEWS ON THE COMPANY:

Vinoble Reaches AgreMichelle.Lokayent to Acquire RFID Patents
Friday April 29, 6:27 pm ET 
MALIBU, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 29, 2O05--Vinoble, Inc. (OTCBB: 
VNBL - News), a holding company seeking to identify long-term growth 
opportunities in the areas of homeland security, security information 
systMichelle.Lokays, and other security services, is pleased to announce that it has 
reached an agreMichelle.Lokayent in principal to acquire 1O0% of certain Radio 
Frequency Identification (RFID) technologies and patents which will allow 
the Company to offer a complete end-to-end solution for the tracking, 
managMichelle.Lokayent, and monitoring of both mobile and non-mobile assets. 
As previously announced Vinoble identified and initiated discussions 
with the intent to acquire or license pre-existing RFID technologies. As 
a result, ManagMichelle.Lokayent has decided to pursue the acquisitions of such 
technology. Moreover, the Company has reached certain agreMichelle.Lokayents in 
principal and both parties are diligently working towards completion of due 
diligence and preparedness of a definitive agreMichelle.Lokayent. These patents will 
provide the Company with technology in the asset tracking and 
managMichelle.Lokayent of customer mobile and non-mobile assets, as well as offer technology 
applications enabling customer enhanced performance, safety, and 
preparedness. 
In the wake of 9/11, government and industry have searched for ways to 
secure assets and hazardous materials. One area of concern is the risk 
associated with containers and cargo being transported across 
international boundaries. Although increasingly sophisticated tools exist, 
developing and deploying smart containers with RFID technology becomes a 
high priority in the prevention of terrorism. 
With the implMichelle.Lokayentation of the U.S. Customs Container Security 
Initiative (CSI), launched in 2OO2, which uses information technology to 
identify and target high-risk shipments for inspection, containers can be 
equipped with an RFID device that can be fitted to any intermodal shipping 
container. The device can determine whether the container has been 
opened and can monitor other sensors that report on the conditions and the 
safety of the goods within the container. Communication with other RFID 
tags wired to sensors within the container can measure changes in 
light, atmospheric pressure, shock, radio activity, and any other 
environmental hazards or potential hazards. 
When integrated with Global Positioning SystMichelle.Lokays technology, such a 
device can also provide two-way monitoring within a supply chain to offer 
real-time analysis as well as real-time visibility about location, 
status and security. Cargo and containers can travel into ports safe and 
free from tampering and from unauthorized passage of illegal harmful 
materials. 
As an added benefit, such device could offer the customer information 
to prevent spoilage in the transportation of foods, and also determine 
whether changes in conditions can be of potential harm for legitimate 
goods in transit. 
Vinoble has been aggressive in its move to acquire this technology for 
deployment and believes that it can close on a definitive agreMichelle.Lokayent 
with in the next two weeks. Once completed the Company will seek to market 
and deploy its technology immediately with the assistance of channel 
partners. The Company believes that such acquisition of technology will 
position Vinoble in a vastly growing industry. The Company's goal is to 
provide vital security services at a cost manageable to even the 
smallest of businesses that can't afford to do without the safety of their 
personnel and assets in this current state of constant threat. 
Safe Harbor StatMichelle.Lokayent: This press release contains forward-looking 
statMichelle.Lokayents as defined in The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995 (the "Act"). In particular, when used in the preceding discussion, 
the words "plan," "confident that," "believe," "scheduled," "expect," or 
"intend to," and similar conditional expressions are intended to 
identify forward-looking statMichelle.Lokayents within the meaning of the Act and are 
subject to the safe harbor created by the Act. Such statMichelle.Lokayents are subject 
to certain risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ 
materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statMichelle.Lokayent. Such risks 
and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the ability of 
Vinoble to complete the proposed acquisition(s), the results of Vinoble's 
due diligence review of the candidate(s), the success of the business of 
the acquisition candidate(s), including the ability of Vinoble to 
continue to sell the applicable products and the acceptance of those newly 
designed products by the market, market conditions, the general 
acceptance of the Company's products and technologies, competitive factors, 
timing, and other risks described in the Company's SEC reports and 
filings. The closing of the transaction will be subject to complete due 
diligence, inspections, and completion of audited financial statMichelle.Lokayents in 
accordance to GAAP as required by the SEC prior to consummation. 
 
We Believe the SPECULATIVE NEAR TERM TARGET PRICE is - $0.50
We Believe the SPECULATIVE LONG TERM TARGET PRICE -    $4.OO
 
We feel this is our best pick since DecMichelle.Lokayber of 2O04!!

Please Watch this one Trade Wednesday!
 
 
DISCLAIMER:  
Information within this Michelle.Lokayail contains "FORWARD looking statMichelle.Lokayents" 
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and 
Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statMichelle.Lokayents that 
express or   involve   discussions with respect to predictions, 
expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, goals, assumptions or future 
events or performance are not statMichelle.Lokayents of historical fact and may be 
"FORWARD looking statMichelle.Lokayents."F0RWARD looking statMichelle.Lokayents are based on 
expectations, estimates and projections at the time the statMichelle.Lokayents are 
made that involve a number of risks and uncertainties which could cause 
actual results or events to differ materially from those presently 
anticipated. F0RWARD looking statMichelle.Lokayents in this action may be identified 
through the use of words such as "projects", "foresee", "expects",  
"will,"  "anticipates,"  "estimates," "believes,"  "understands” or that by 
statMichelle.Lokayents indicating certain actions "may," "could," or "might" occur. 
As with many micro-cap stocks, today's company has additional risk 
factors worth noting. Those factors include: a limited operating history, 
the company advancing cash to related parties and a shareholder on an 
unsecured basis: one vendor, a related party through a majority 
stockholder, supplies ninety-seven percent of the company's raw materials:  
reliance on two customers for over fifty percent of their business and 
numerous related party transactions and the need to raise capital. These 
factors and others are more fully spelled out in the company's SEC 
filings. We urge you to read the filings before you invest.  The ROCKET ST0CK 
Report does not represent that the information contained in this 
message states all material facts or does not omit a material fact necessary 
to make the statMichelle.Lokayents therein not misleading.  All information 
provided within this Michelle.Lokayail pertaining to investing, ST0CKS, securities must be 
understood as information provided and not investment advice. The 
ROCKET ST0CK Report advises all readers and subscribers to seek advice from 
a registered professional securities representative before deciding to 
trade in ST0CKS featured within this Michelle.Lokayail. None of the material within 
this report   shall be construed as any kind of investment advice or 
solicitation. Many of these companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. You 
can lose all your M0NEY by investing in this ST0CK. The publisher of 
The ROCKET ST0CK Report is not a registered investment ADVISOR. 
Subscribers should not view information herein as legal, tax, accounting or 
investment advice. Any reference to past performance(s) of companies are 
specially selected to be referenced based on the favorable performance of 
these companies. You would need perfect timing to achieve the results 
in the examples given.   There can be no assurance of that happening. 
RMichelle.LokayMichelle.Lokayber, as always, past performance is never indicative of future 
results and a thorough due diligence effort, including a review of a 
company's filings, should be completed prior to investing. In compliance 
with the Securities Act of 1933, Section 17(b), The ROCKET ST0CK Report 
discloses the receipt of twelve thousand DOLLARS from a third party 
(GMichelle.Lokay,Inc.), not an officer, director or affiliate  shareholder  for  the 
circulation  of  this report. GMichelle.Lokay, Inc. has a position in the ST0CK they 
will sell at any time without notice.  Be aware of an inherent conflict 
of interest resulting from such compensation due to the fact that this 
is a paid advertisMichelle.Lokayent and we are conflicted. All factual information 
in this report was gathered from public sources, including but not 
limited to Company Websites, SEC Filings and Company Press Releases. The 
ROCKET ST0CK Report believes this information to be reliable but can make 
no guarantee as to its accuracy or completeness. Use of the material 
within this Michelle.Lokayail constitutes your acceptance of these terms.

If you wish to stop future mailings, please mail to  news_let2 @yahoo.com

