Received: from NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.98]) by NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Mon, 5 Nov 2001 11:56:45 -0600
x-mimeole: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: RE: PennFuture's E-Cubed - Wind Market Power
Date: Mon, 5 Nov 2001 11:56:44 -0600
Message-ID: <3080E1264732244B844860A7BD823A690D9EC9@NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <3080E1264732244B844860A7BD823A690D9EC9@NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: PennFuture's E-Cubed - Wind Market Power
Thread-Index: AcFeU4SHMEOWw8pGEdWxIgBQi+MJ2QHzWmPAAABYWSA=
From: "Thome, Jennifer" <Jennifer.Thome@ENRON.com>
To: "Bolton, Stacey" <Stacey.Bolton@ENRON.com>,
	"Mainzer, Elliot" <Elliot.Mainzer@ENRON.com>,
	"Ring, Richard" <Richard.Ring@ENRON.com>,
	"Bryson, Jesse" <Jesse.Bryson@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Jennifer.Thome@ENRON.com

Note also that NARUC's annual conference is in Philadelphia at the beginning of the week (Nov. 11-14).  Below is the main agenda, as well as the agenda for the Ctte. on Energy Resources and the Environment. 

http://www.naruc.org/Meetings/annualconv/2001/comm_agendas.html
http://www.naruc.org/Meetings/annualconv/2001/ere.html

Jenny
 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Bolton, Stacey  
Sent:	Monday, November 05, 2001 9:42 AM
To:	Mainzer, Elliot; Ring, Richard; Bryson, Jesse; Thome, Jennifer
Subject:	FW: PennFuture's E-Cubed - Wind Market Power

I can't remember if I forwarded this to you guys.  Of note, see the Exelon/Community Energy piece. 

I was planning to attend the luncheon mentioned below, however, it is the same day as the kick-off meeting for the PJM trading system group.  I doubt I'll be able to make it, but one of you might like to attend.

Stacey Bolton
Environmental Strategies
Enron Corp
713-853-9916 direct 
713-303-2632 cell 
stacey.bolton@enron.com <mailto:stacey.bolton@enron.com>
 

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	"PennFuture" <pennfuture@pennfuture.org>@ENRON  
Sent:	Friday, October 26, 2001 2:14 PM
To:	Friends of PennFuture
Subject:	PennFuture's E-Cubed - Wind Market Power


Register now for our upcoming events!
*Nov. 9*     "Global Warming & Climate  Change: The Coming Changes to Pennsylvania's Natural Heritage and Public Health"  
Sponsored by PennFuture and the Interfaith Campaign on Climate  Change of the Pennsylvania Council of Churches, and cosponsored by Audubon  PA.
9:00 a.m.- 4:30 p.m. -- Trinity Lutheran Church in Camp Hill,  PA --  $25 General Admission.
 
*Nov. 15*     Second Annual Green Power:  Turn It On! Awards Luncheon
Sponsored by PennFuture in cooperation with the U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency, the Center for Resource Solutions & the  U.S. Department of Energy - Philadelphia Regional Office. Luncheon Program --12  - 2 p.m. -- Omni William Penn Hotel, 530 William Penn Place, Pittsburgh --  $25 General Admission, $15 PennFuture Members.
 
*Dec. 3*     Election 2001: The Calm  Before The Storm"
Presentations by Senator Jeffrey Piccola, Senate Majority  Whip; Representative Michael Veon, House Minority Whip; Professor G. Terry  Madonna, Millersville University. Luncheon Program -- 11:30 a.m. --  Harrisburg Hilton and Towers -- $25 General Admission, $15.00  Members.
 
See "Events/Campaigns" on our website (www.pennfuture.org << File: vol3no20_102601.doc >> ) for more information and to  register.
---------------------------------
October 26, 2001
Vol. 3,  No. 20
Wind Market Power 
As strong winds blew in from the west on October 24th,  Community Energy and Exelon Power Team executives announced the five largest  retail wind purchases in America's history to a large crowd of excited onlookers  gathered for the dedication of two new Pennsylvania wind farms. 
 
Amidst cheers and applause, Mike Freeman of Exelon Power Team  and Brent Alderfer of Community Energy announced that the University of  Pennsylvania now leads the nation for the largest retail purchase of wind. The  Penn Quakers are buying 20 million kilowatt-hours (kWh) - the output of five  turbines or the equivalent of 5 percent of its electricity - from the Community  Energy-Exelon Power Team's 15 MW and 9 MW wind farms at Mill Run and Somerset  Township. 
 
With these turbines only just beginning to turn, multiple  conversations were heard about the need to build even more wind farms to meet  retail consumer demand for wind energy. All those standing on the reclaimed mine  land that is now a dairy farm could see before them the merging of wind power  and the power of the retail marketplace.
 
Not far behind the Quakers in their purchase are the roaring  Nittany Lions of Penn State University. Penn State University is purchasing more  than 13 million kWh, the production of three turbines, from Community Energy.  For a land grant university, it's hard to beat clean energy made on a dairy  farm.
 
In third place is Carnegie Mellon University, which created  crucial momentum by becoming the first major wind purchaser, acquiring 4.8  million kWh. Having exercised real leadership and gotten this market moving,  Carnegie Mellon is seriously considering increasing its wind energy buy next  year.
 
Rounding out the top five are the Philadelphia Suburban Water  Company and Giant Eagle, with purchases of about 4 million and 3 million kWh  respectively. 
 
We urge more companies and utilities to follow their examples.  If you are interested in buying wind energy, contact Community Energy at  www.newwindenergy.com . 
 
In fact, if just 660 institutions buy at least the output of  one large wind turbine, Pennsylvania's retail consumers can insure that 1,000 MW  of new wind energy are built and operating. By harnessing the power of the  retail market to wind power development, that goal is very achievable.  
 
Though not in the top five, the Environmental Protection  Agency, Western Pennsylvania Conservancy, and the White Dog Cafe in Philadelphia  have all also made major purchases. Every one of these purchasers understands  the price of wind energy, but more importantly, they understand its  environmental, public health, and energy security value, showing that Oscar  Wilde wasn't right about everyone when he said "nowadays people know the price  of everything and the value of nothing."
 
Stunningly, 75 percent of the wind power from these two wind  farms was sold out as soon as Public Utility Commission Chairman Glen Thomas and  Department of Environmental Protection Secretary David Hess flipped the switch  of the first of what are sixteen Enron Wind 1.5 MW machines. 
 
These turbines, which make 11-20 full revolutions per minute,  are the largest manufactured in the United States, and their blades are longer  than previously used to be more efficient in the moderate-but-steady wind at  these locations. All told, they will generate enough electricity for 8,000  homes, or about 63 million kWh of electricity - with no soot, mercury, carbon  dioxide, nitrogen oxide, or sulfur dioxide. In contrast, typical system power in  this region would emit about 75 million pounds of carbon dioxide, 568,000 pounds  of sulfur dioxide, and 177,000 pounds per year of nitrogen oxide in order to  provide the same amount of electricity.  
 
But aside from the important environmental benefits, the wind  projects also reflect substantial economic development in Fayette and Somerset  counties. Both the Mill Run and Somerset turbines are on working farms, with the  owners receiving $3,000 to $4,000 for each tower erected on their land, which  they continue to farm. Several of the Somerset turbines are situated on  reclaimed strip and deep mines. Construction of the two wind farms required  about 40 labor years of employment and will require about four full-time  equivalent workers to maintain and operate the sites. The sites generate local  property taxes and, if yesterday's dedication ceremonies and the nearby Green  Mountain wind farm in Garrett are any indication, at least a modest tourist  industry! 
 
This was all made possible by a great project team and every  member deserves a hearty "well done." Although construction only took about 4½  months, project development by Atlantic Renewable Energy Corporation began about  two years ago. Zilkha Renewable Energy, Atlantic's development partner, provided  project financing, as did The Reinvestment Fund's Sustainable Development Fund,  with money made available as a result of the PECO Energy and Unicom merger  settlement negotiated by PennFuture and others. Exelon Power Team is the  wholesaler and Community Energy markets wind energy to retail customers.   
 
On a sad note, Nick Humber, an Enron Wind employee who was  instrumental in moving the projects to fruition, died when his hijacked plane  crashed into the World Trade Center on Sept. 11. Another plane that crashed in  Somerset County was only about 15 miles from the wind farm. Nick's contribution  to the project leaves a stunning memorial, reaching into the sky, with clean,  affordable, home-grown electricity that supports our communities. We are glad  that Nick's brother was able to attend the dedication. 
 
As the tragic events of Sept. 11 spur renewed patriotism and  interest in domestic safety, it is important to recognize that the Community  Energy-Exelon wind farms will help to increase America's energy independence and  security. More wind farms can only do us more good. 
 
"Conservation is a moral issue," said President Teddy  Roosevelt, "for it involves the patriotic duty to insure the safety and  continuance of the nation." 
 
In these times, conservation of America's environment and  protecting the nation's safety cannot be done without an accelerated shift to  wind and other renewable energy resources. To all involved with this project,  but especially the University of Pennsylvania and the other purchasers who have  acted in keeping with Teddy Roosevelt's words, we salute  you.
---------------------------------
E-Cubed is available for reprint in  newspapers and other publications. Authors are available for print or  broadcast.
 
PennFuture (www.pennfuture.org ), with offices in Harrisburg,  Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, is a statewide public interest membership  organization, which advances policies to protect and improve the state's  environment and economy. PennFuture's activities include litigating cases before  regulatory bodies and in local, state and federal courts, advocating and  advancing legislative action on a state and federal level, public education and  assisting citizens in public advocacy.
 
To unsubscribe, simply reply to this email with "unsubscribe"  in the subject.
 - vol3no20_102601.doc 

