Recieved: from nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.237]) by NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Mon, 5 Nov 2001 20:30:09 -0600
Received: from corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.226]) by nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Mon, 5 Nov 2001 20:30:09 -0600
Received: from mailman.enron.com (unverified) by corp.enron.com
 (Content Technologies SMTPRS 4.2.1) with ESMTP id <T570a9ce204c0a86ee24b4@corp.enron.com> for <jdasovic@exchange.enron.com>;
 Mon, 5 Nov 2001 20:30:08 -0600
Received: from haas.berkeley.edu (haasb.Haas.Berkeley.EDU [128.32.67.113])
	by mailman.enron.com (8.11.4/8.11.4/corp-1.06) with ESMTP id fA62U7V17939
	for <jdasovic@enron.com>; Mon, 5 Nov 2001 20:30:07 -0600 (CST)
Received: (from majordom@localhost)
	by haas.berkeley.edu (Switch-2.1.0/Switch-2.1.0) id fA62KZo14606
	for eveningmba-outgoing; Mon, 5 Nov 2001 18:20:35 -0800 (PST)
X-Authentication-Warning: haas.berkeley.edu: majordom set sender to owner-eveningmba@haas.berkeley.edu using -f
Received: (from majordom@localhost)
	by haas.berkeley.edu (Switch-2.1.0/Switch-2.1.0) id fA62ItU14168
	for haasnewswire-outgoing; Mon, 5 Nov 2001 18:18:55 -0800 (PST)
X-Authentication-Warning: haas.berkeley.edu: majordom set sender to owner-haasnewswire@haas.berkeley.edu using -f
Received: from benson.haas.berkeley.edu (haas-s550011.Haas.Berkeley.EDU [128.32.70.139])
	by haas.berkeley.edu (Switch-2.1.0/Switch-2.1.0) with ESMTP id fA62Isb14162
	for <haasnewswire@haas.berkeley.edu>; Mon, 5 Nov 2001 18:18:54 -0800 (PST)
Message-Id: <5.0.0.25.2.20011105175616.0182a770@haas.berkeley.edu>
X-Sender: haasnews@haas.berkeley.edu
X-Mailer: QUALCOMM Windows Eudora Version 5.0
Date: Mon, 05 Nov 2001 18:18:53 -0800
To: haasnewswire@haas.berkeley.edu
From: Haas NewsWire <haasnews@haas.berkeley.edu>
Subject: Haas MBA Students Take Top Honors at Marketing Case Competition
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: multipart/alternative;
	boundary="=====================_624345821==_.ALT"
Precedence: bulk
Sender: owner-eveningmba@haas.berkeley.edu
Reply-To: Haas NewsWire <haasnews@haas.berkeley.edu>
Return-Path: owner-eveningmba@haas.berkeley.edu

Haas NewsWire
November 5, 2001

----------
CONTENTS
    * Haas MBA Students Take Top Honors at Marketing Case Competition
    * Wireless at Cal: Haas Continues to Expand Wireless Coverage
    * The 24th Annual Real Estate & Economics Symposium: What Does the 
Future Hold for Real Estate?
    * Haas Undergraduate Students Shine at Case Competitions
    * Top Haas Economists Discuss the Economic Outlook for the US this 
Friday, Nov. 9
    * Haas Does Well in Off-Beat Rankings
    * Arun Sarin, MBA 78, Joins the Search Committee for the New Dean
    * Mayfield Fellows Program Accepting Applications for Summer 2002 
Internships
    * Alumni News
    * New Staff
    * Haas in the News
    * Happening at Haas
    * Haas Celebrations
    ----------
HAAS MBA STUDENTS TAKE TOP HONORS AT MARKETING CASE COMPETITION
A team of five Haas MBA students won top honors this past weekend at the 
2001 Elite Eight Brand Case Challenge at the Carlson School of Management 
at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis.  Team members Anita Akerkar, 
MBA 03; Dennis Cox, MBA 02; Aman Desouza, MBA 02; Nate Kraft, MBA 02; and 
Sherry Lin, MBA 03 competed against seven top business schools including 
UCLA's Anderson, Carlson, Fuqua, Kelley (Indiana), Kellogg, Michigan, and 
Wharton.

"It was a great experience," said Sherry Lin. "This really solidifies Haas' 
position as a top marketing program."

The teams received a marketing case on Yoplait's Go-Gurt and were given 36 
hours to prepare a structured analysis and recommendations.  Go-Gurt is a 
$135 million portable yogurt snack brand that targets kids ages 8 to 12. 
After a strong launch, the brand was experiencing a decline in growth and 
increased competition.  The Haas team's suggestion included both deepening 
the relationship with the current target customers and expanding to a new 
market -- teenagers. What made the Haas solution especially appealing was 
the use of focus groups. The team rented a car and traveled to a local mall 
to conduct focus groups with teenagers to find out what would encourage 
them to buy Go-Gurt.

Each team presented its recommendation to a panel of judges consisting of 
executives from sponsoring companies as well as marketing professors.

In addition to Haas, other winners of the challenge included Northwestern's 
Kellogg School of Business (second place) and Indiana's Kelley School 
(third place).  Winners received $10,000, $7,500, and $5,000 
respectively.  3M, Fallon Worldwide, General Mills, Kimberly-Clark, and 
Philip Morris sponsored the event.
----------
  WIRELESS AT CAL: HAAS CONTINUES TO EXPAND WIRELESS COVERAGE
Wire-free connection has become reality at the Haas School. Wireless access 
services, such as e-mail and the web, are now available in and around 
select areas of the Haas School. The new service is part of UC Berkeley's 
pilot wireless LAN service, known as AirBears, which enables students to 
connect to the campus network if they have a laptop equipped with a 
wireless Ethernet card.

So far at Haas, AirBears wireless LAN coverage is available in: the Wells 
Fargo Room, the Haas courtyard, Jimmie Bean's Café, the Bank of America 
Forum, the MBA lounge, the undergraduate lounge, the MFE Collaboration lab, 
library group study rooms, the Bakar Computer Center, C230 sloped floor 
classroom, and F320 classroom. According to Mike Pivonka, the plan is to 
extend coverage to all Haas classrooms and major conference rooms before 
the start of spring semester.

Using the AirBears wireless LAN requires:
    + a laptop or other computer with 802.11b wireless ethernet card (WiFi 
certified).
    + a currently valid CalNetID and passphrase.
    + an SSL-enabled web browser (IE, Netscape etc.) on your computer.
    + an area with AirBears coverage.

AirBears is also available in the Cesar E. Chavez Student Center, the 
Bechtel Engineering Library study area, and the Doe Library study carrels 
(selected areas). It will soon be available in the Mario Savio Free Speech 
Movement Café; the Northgate Lecture Hall; and the Foothill Residence Halls 
(selected common areas). Please check http://www.net.berkeley.edu/wireless 
for updates on availability.
----------
THE 24TH ANNUAL REAL ESTATE & ECONOMICS SYMPOSIUM: WHAT DOES THE FUTURE 
HOLD FOR REAL ESTATE?
Predicting the future of the economy and the real estate market in the US 
has always been difficult and has become even more so after the attacks on 
September 11. At Haas this daunting task will be taken on by the Fisher 
Center for Real Estate and Urban Economics (FCREUE) at its annual 
conference, which brings together leading experts from academia, business, 
and government to discuss and offer predictions on the economy and the real 
estate market.

The 24th annual Real Estate and Economics Symposium,  "Adjusting to the New 
Economic and Real Estate Realities," takes place November 19 from 8:00 a.m. 
to 5:00 p.m. at the Fairmont Hotel in San Francisco.  At this full-day 
program, experts will talk about various aspects of the risks in the real 
estate business and how real estate will adjust to the new economic 
environment.

"The demise of the new economy and ensuing economic recession in the US and 
Silicon Valley, the energy crisis, and the post-September 11th 
uncertainties, have created an unsettled and clearly changing sea-level for 
real estate and other asset markets," said Bob Edlestein, symposium 
co-chairman and real estate development professor.  "It appears in the 
short run that real estate is in troubled waters with its outcome depending 
upon how quickly we can stabilize the general economy.  It is likely that 
there's 'worse' ahead before things turn better in the real estate market; 
but, ten years from now, it is likely that our economy will be faring 
better and real estate will be a hot asset again."

An array of experts will speak about the changing social-political-economic 
environment and its impact on real estate.
    +Kenneth Rosen, the California State Professor of Real Estate and Urban 
Economics and chairman of the Fisher Center for Real Estate and Urban 
Economics, will give his annual real estate forecast.
    +Bob Parry, president of the Federal Reserve of San Francisco, will 
explain how the economy and policy are likely to fare in the near future.
    +Michael Nacht, dean of the Richard & Rhoda Goldman School of Public 
Policy and former assistant director for strategic and Eurasian affairs of 
the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, will provide a political 
backdrop about security issues and their likely effects upon the US economy.

The complete agenda and additional details can be found on the FCREUE 
website www.haas.berkeley.edu/realestate.

All Haas faculty are invited to attend the symposium free of charge. 
Complimentary attendance is also available for students who volunteer to 
help out during the Symposium.  Contact Zee Zeleski at 
zeleski@haas.berkeley.edu to register.
----------
HAAS UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS SHINE AT CASE COMPETITIONS
The undergraduate team representing Haas at the 2001 University of Texas 
International Business Challenge Case Competition in Austin, Texas, brought 
home both second place and the competition's Professional Excellence Award.

The International Business Challenge is an annual undergraduate business 
case competition held each fall at the University of Texas at Austin. Teams 
come from 20 leading undergraduate business schools from the US, Canada, 
South America, Asia, and Europe. The first place team was from the 
University of Hong Kong.

The teams were given a case depicting real-world problems confronted by 
Dell Computer Corporation and three days to prepare a solution. The teams 
presented their solution to the "client," a panel of distinguished judges 
from Dell, Solomon Smith Barney, and other members of the business 
community.  Four teams were selected to advance to the final round.

"The Haas Team approached this case as a real client case and spent time 
analyzing the current market and how Dell could achieve a higher revenue 
growth," says Annie Lai, director of admissions and operations in the 
Undergraduate Program.  "They not only presented a great recommendation, 
but also demonstrated their knowledge and understanding of global business 
issues."

The Haas team included Eurie Kim, BS 01; Parizad Olver, BS 01; Megan 
Schofield, BS 01; and Julie Wang, BS 02. The faculty/staff advisors to the 
team were George Cluff, Steve Etter, David Robinson, and Annie Lai. Haas is 
the first program ever to earn awards at four consecutive University of 
Texas International Business Challenge Case Competitions.  In addition, 
case competition teams from the Haas Undergraduate Program have won awards 
in 7 of the 9 international case competitions they have entered since fall 
1998.

Investment Banking Case Competition
Back at home, the Fourth Annual Investment Banking Case Competition 
presented by the Haas School of Business and Goldman Sachs & Co. took place 
on October 30, 2001. Each year this event showcases one of Goldman Sachs' 
recent high profile transactions. This year's case focused on the recent 
sale of Cobalt Networks to Sun Microsystems.  The winning team included 
Joseph Spector, BS 02; Annabelle Louie, BS December 01 (business 
administration and mass communications); Peter Lee, BS 02 (math); and Tina 
Tong, BS December 01, (business administration and economics).
----------
TOP HAAS ECONOMISTS DISCUSS THE ECONOMIC OUTLOOK FOR THE US THIS FRIDAY, 
NOV. 9
A group of top Haas economists will give their take on where the US economy 
is heading this Friday, Nov. 9 in the Arthur Andersen Auditorium. The 
Economic Outlook Forum begins at 4:00 p.m. Tickets are available in the 
program offices. Standing-room tickets will be available the day of the event.

The event will have two panel discussions: Overview of Domestic and Global 
Macroeconomic Conditions and Implications for Business. The revised agenda 
for the event now includes Dwight Jaffee, the Willis Booth Professor of 
Banking, Finance, and Real Estate, who will discuss the business 
implications for the insurance industry. Both Dean Tyson and Ben Hermalin, 
associate dean for academic affairs, will moderate discussions.

After the forum, streaming video of the event will be available on the Haas 
web site at http://www.haas.berkeley.edu/haas/video_room/.
----------
HAAS DOES WELL IN OFF-BEAT RANKINGS
As business school rankings proliferate, they highlight different strengths 
of MBA programs. In October, Haas was ranked well in three rankings: Beyond 
Grey Pinstripes' survey on social and environmental stewardship, Computer 
World's Techno MBA survey, and America Economia magazine's survey on global 
MBA programs.

Beyond Grey Pinstripes
The Haas School was ranked among the top 15% of business schools in the 
Beyond Grey Pinstripes survey released on Oct. 31. The survey was conducted 
jointly by the World Resources Institute and The Aspen Institute for Social 
Innovation Through Business in an effort to determine how well business 
schools teach their MBA students how to manage the social and environmental 
impact of business.

The top five schools at the cutting edge of social impact management were 
those at Harvard, Loyola Marymount, Michigan - Ann Arbor, North Carolina, 
and York University (Canada). George Washington University, University of 
Jyvaeskylae (Finland), Michigan, North Carolina, and Yale were listed as 
the top five at the cutting edge of environmental impact management.

The Haas School was listed in the second tier of ten schools having 
significant activities in the areas of social and environmental impact 
management. The survey specifically mentioned Haas for its Social Venture 
Competition, its participation in the Corporate Environmental Management 
concentration (offered by nine UC campuses), and for having an endowed 
professorship in the area of sustainable enterprise or sustainable management.

The survey weighed student coursework (50%), institutional support (30%), 
and faculty research (20%) to determine its top 15% of graduate business 
schools teaching social and environmental responsibility. Of the 463 
schools that received the extensive questionnaire, 122 schools responded.

The Techno MBA
Computer World magazine listed the Haas School among the top 25 
technology-driven business schools in its 2001 Techno MBA survey published 
on Oct. 22. The purpose of the survey, according to the magazine, was to 
determine "which schools do the best job of combining good management 
techniques and technology innovation under the general heading of sound 
business practices."

In its two-part survey, Computer World asked recruiters to nominate the 
best techno-MBA programs nationally based on their recruiting experiences 
at these schools. Computer World then asked MBA programs to nominate what 
they considered to be the best technology-driven programs (other than their 
own) and to submit information on their own programs and students.

The University of California was represented in the top 25 with three 
campuses - Berkeley, Los Angeles, and Irvine. Other top-ranked schools 
included Wharton, Indiana, Northwestern, Michigan, North Carolina, and UT 
Austin. Computer World did not assign individual rankings to these top 25 
schools.

According to Computer World, Carnegie Mellon, MIT, Harvard, Duke, Stanford, 
and New York University were also nominated as top programs, but did not 
participate in the survey.

America Economia
The Latin American business journal America Economia ranked the Haas School 
#11 among global MBA programs offered in the US and Europe in its Sept. 13 
issue.

The top universities offering global MBAs were:
1. Harvard University
2. U. Pennsylvania (Wharton)
3. Stanford University
4. MIT (Sloan)
5. Northwestern (Kellogg)
6. INSEAD (tied)
6. London Business School (tied)
7. University of Chicago
8. Columbia University
9. UCLA (Anderson)
10. University of Texas-Austin
11. UC Berkeley (Haas)
12. Duke University (Fuqua)
13. New York University (Stern)
14. University of Michigan
15. University of Virginia (Darden)

The rankings issue of America Economia examined the competition US and 
European business schools pose to Latin American institutions. In addition 
to its global MBA ranking, it ranked Latin American business schools in a 
separate ranking.
----------
ARUN SARIN, MBA 78, JOINS THE SEARCH COMMITTEE FOR THE NEW DEAN
Arun Sarin, MBA 78, has agreed to join the search committee for the new 
dean of the Haas School.  Sarin, CEO of Accel-KKR Telecom, has been a very 
active alumnus of the Haas School. In spring of 2001, he served as an 
alumni fellow, and he has spoken at numerous Haas events over the years.

Advertisements asking for applications and nominations have appeared in the 
New York Times, the Chronicle of Higher Education, the Wall Street Journal, 
and the Economist.  The deadline for submissions is January 15, 
2002.  Katherine Riordan, staff to the search committee, encourages the 
Haas community to send suggestions and potential nominations to her at 
kriordan@uclink.berkeley.edu.
----------
MAYFIELD FELLOWS PROGRAM ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR SUMMER 2002 INTERNSHIPS
The UC Berkeley Mayfield Fellows Program is now accepting applications for 
Summer 2002 internships.  These paid summer internships at venture 
capital-funded Silicon Valley high-tech startups will be made available to 
up to 12 graduate students at UC Berkeley.

The eligibility requirements for the program are:
    + Enrollment as either first-year Haas MBA student or MS or Ph.D. 
student in engineering or SIMS.
    + Completion of one entrepreneurship or MOT course by May 2002.
    + A bachelor's degree in engineering or science.

  An information session will be held on November 7, at 12:00 p.m. in the 
Wozniak Lounge in Soda Hall. To apply, supply a one-page resume, a one-page 
essay stating how you feel you will benefit from the opportunity and why 
you are well suited for this internship, and two letters of recommendation, 
with at least one, if possible, from a previous employer. Applications must 
be submitted by 5:00 pm Wednesday, November 14, 2001, to room F 453 at Haas.

The UC Berkeley Mayfield Fellows Program is funded by The Mayfield Fund, a 
top-tier venture capital fund based in Menlo Park, California. The Mayfield 
program is administered jointly by the Management of Technology Program and 
the Lester Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation.
----------
ALUMNI NEWS
Bengt Baron Appointed President of V&S's Brand ABSOLUT

Bengt Baron, BS 85, MBA 88, has been appointed president of The Absolut 
Company, a business of the Swedish company V&S Vin & Sprit AB. Baron's 
responsibilities include the production, marketing, and sales of ABSOLUT, 
the world's third-best-selling premium spirits brand.

Baron has held several leading positions in Swedish business life, most 
recently as Nordic director for the internet-based career and recruitment 
company StepStone. Baron assumes his new position at year-end when the 
current president, Göran Lundqvist, retires. For more information visit 
www.vinsprit.se.
----------
NEW STAFF
Dinko Lakic has joined the Undergraduate Program office as a student 
services coordinator. He is in charge of the undergraduate program web site 
and is the coordinator of the BASE program.

Lakic graduated from the Haas undergraduate program in May of 2001. While 
he was a student, he worked for Cal and was a CalSO counselor coordinating 
summer orientations for incoming students.  At Haas, he was a reader and a 
teaching assistant for lecturer Holly Schroth.

Lakic's office is in S450. His e-mail address is lakic@haas.berkeley.edu 
and his phone number is 510-642-1421.
----------
HAAS IN THE NEWS
Kenneth Rosen, the California State Professor of Real Estate and Urban 
Economics and chairman of the Fisher Center for Real Estate and Urban 
Economics, was quoted in the San Francisco Chronicle on November 4 in an 
article titled, "Real Estate Powerhouse Added to S&P 500 Index." Read the 
full text at 
http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/chronicle/archive/2001/11/04/RE194859.DTL.

Janet Yellen, Eugene E. and Catherine M. Trefethen Professor of Business, 
was quoted in the Contra Costa Times on November 3 in an article titled, 
"State Leaders Try to Aid Economy." Read the full text at 
http://www.contracostatimes.com/cgi-bin/emailfriend/emailfriend.cgi?mode=print&doc=http://www.contracostatimes.com/news/california/stories/summit_20011103.htm. 


Severin Borenstein, the E.T. Grether Professor in Public Policy and 
Business Administration, was quoted in the November 12 issue of Fortune 
Magazine in an article about America's dependence on imported oil from 
OPEC.  Read the article here: 
http://www.fortune.com/indexw.jhtml?channel=artcol.jhtml&doc_id=204854

Borenstein was also quoted in the San Francisco Chronicle on November 1, 
commenting on PG&E Corp.'s fight against two public power measures 
appearing on San Francisco ballots.  Read the article at: 
http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/chronicle/archive/2001/11/01/MN102970.DTL

Dan Sullivan, director of student services in the MBA program, was featured 
in the online version of MBA Jungle on November 2, commenting on the 
admissions process at Haas.  Read the article 
at: 
http://www.mbajungle.com/main.cfm?chid=0&schid=0&WT=00&artid=1692&inc=inc_article.cfm&template=0>http://www.mbajungle.com/main.cfm?chid=0&schid=0&WT=00&artid=1692&inc=inc_article.cfm&template=0
----------
HAPPENING AT HAAS
Brown Bag Lunch: The Rise, Fall, and Resurrection of the Merchant E-tailer
Tuesday, November 6, 2001
12:30 to 1:30 p.m.
Room C110
The last five years have provided a spectacular view of hope and decline 
for the merchant e-tailer. Join Professor Emeritus Pete Bucklin as he 
reviews this history and seeks to explain the hype, why we were all 
enthralled by it, and the dramatic fall from grace. Most importantly, we 
will focus on its reasons for the failures and speculate as to what will 
emerge from the ashes.

Undergraduate Marketing Association's Ad Night
Tuesday, November 6, 2001
  7:00 p.m.
Wells Fargo Room
Representatives from marketing, advertising, and public relations firms 
discuss their field, company, job, and how they got where they currently 
are. Foote, Cone & Belding, Edelman Public Relations, Bravo! Marketing, and 
TBWA/Chiat/Day will be in attendance, as well as Haas Advertising Professor 
Trudy Kehret-Ward. All are welcome to attend. ASUC/Haas Sponsored

The Fisher Center for Information Technology and Marketplace Transformation 
(CITM) presents
eBusiness Transformation in Banking
Wednesday, November 7, 2001
12:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Faculty Club

Management of Technology Lecture
"Innovation in Silicon Valley: Retrospective and Forecast," by Sandy 
Robertson, founder, Robertson Stephens
Wednesday, November 7, 2001
3:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Wells Fargo Room
For more information, contact Susan Reneau at sreneau@haas.berkeley.edu.

Management of Technology Lecture
"Challenges in Telecom Marketing," by Donald Proctor, VP, Cisco Systems
Wednesday, November 14, 2001
3:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Wells Fargo Room
For more information, contact Susan Reneau at sreneau@haas.berkeley.edu.

Business Faculty Research Dialogue
"Adding Value with Information Technology" with Craig Barrett, president 
and CEO of Intel Corporation
Wednesday, November 14, 2001
4:00 p.m.
Arthur Andersen Auditorium
There will be a reception following the lecture in the School's Bank of 
America Forum.

Haas Technology Club Lecture Series
"Building a Next Generation Wireless Services Business, " by Norihiko 
Hirose, VP Bus Dev & Investment, NTT DoCoMo USA
Thursday, November 15, 2001
6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
Wells Fargo Room

Ph.D. SEMINARS
ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIOR AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
"The Economic Sociology of Capitalism: Weber and Schumpeter," by Richard 
Swedberg, University of Stockholm, Sweden
Wednesday, November 7, 2001
4:00 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Room C110, Cheit Hall
For more information, contact Deborah Houy at houy@haas.berkeley.edu.

FINANCE SEMINAR
"Exploring for the Determinants of Credit Risk in Credit Default Swap 
Transaction Data," by Didier Cossin (HEC-University of Lausanne)
Thursday, November 8, 2001
4:15 p.m. to 5:45 pm
Room C110, Cheit Hall
For more information, contact June Wong at june@haas.berkeley.edu.

IDS270-INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS WORKSHOP
"The Economics of Education: A New Perspective," by George Akerlof, UC 
Berkeley
Thursday, November 8, 2001
4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Room C325, Cheit Hall
For more information, contact Anita Stephens at stephens@haas.berkeley.edu.

BA 298-REAL ESTATE SEMINAR
Edward Glaeser, Harvard University
Friday, November 9, 2001
11:00 a.m.
Room C250, Cheit Hall
For more information, contact Lynn Lobner at lyoung@haas.berkeley.edu.

ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIOR AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
Jack Goncalo and Alicia Boisnier, doctoral students, Haas School of Business
Wednesday, November 14, 2001
4:00 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Room C250, Cheit Hall
For more information, contact Deborah Houy at houy@haas.berkeley.edu.

FINANCE SEMINAR
"Asset Securitization and Optimal Asset Structure of the Firm" by Jure 
Skarabot, UC Berkeley
Thursday, November 15, 2001
4:15 p.m. to 5:45 pm
Room C110 Cheit Hall
For more information, contact June Wong at june@haas.berkeley.edu.

E.T. GRETHER MARKETING SEMINAR
"Empirical Analysis of Dynamic Consumer Choice Behavior," by Inseong Song, 
University of Chicago
Thursday, November 15, 2001
3:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Room C330
For more information, contact Laura Gardner at lgardner@haas.berkeley.edu.

IDS 270-INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS WORKSHOP
Jonathan Levin, Stanford University
Thursday, November 15, 2001
4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Room C325, Cheit Hall
For more information, contact Anita Stephens at stephens@haas.berkeley.edu.

REAL ESTATE SEMINAR
Christian Redfearn, University of Southern California
Friday, November 16, 2001
11:00 a.m.
Room C250, Cheit Hall
For more information, contact Lynn Lobner at lyoung@haas.berkeley.edu.

ACCOUNTING SEMINAR
Karen Nelson, Stanford University
Friday, November 16, 2001
4:00 p.m.
Room C325, Cheit Hall
For more information, contact Lorraine Seiji at seiji@haas.berkeley.edu.

ALUMNI EVENTS
Big Game Tailgate
CAL VS. STANFORD
Saturday, November 17, 2001
Frost Amphitheater, Stanford University
Join Cal alumni for a pre-game BBQ tailgate at the Frost Amphitheater, 
Stanford University. The event will be held two-and-a-half hours before 
kickoff (tentative kickoff at 12:30 p.m.). Cost TBD. For more information 
call the Cal Alumni Association Southern Cal office at 1-877-CAL-ALUM.
----------
HAAS CELEBRATIONS
BIRTHDAYS

Sojourner Blair, Nov. 7
Charles Montague, Nov. 7
Terry Yokoyama, Nov. 12

The Haas NewsWire respects the wishes of staff and faculty who would not 
like their birthdays announced. Please e-mail a request to have your 
birthday marked "do not announce" on the central birthday list to 
Haasnews@haas.berkeley.edu.

----------
The Haas NewsWire is the electronic news weekly for the Haas community 
published every Monday by the Marketing and Communications Office at the 
Haas School. Send your news, feedback, and suggestions to 
haasnews@haas.berkeley.edu.

Archived issues of Haas NewsWire are available online at
http://www.haas.berkeley.edu/groups/newspubs/haasnews/archives/hncurrent.html.

To subscribe to Haas NewsWire, address e-mail to 
majordomo@haas.berkeley.edu; in the body of the message type "subscribe 
haasnewswire" in the first line, and "end" in the second line. To 
unsubscribe to HNW, type "unsubscribe haasnewswire" in the first line, and 
"end" in the second line.

