Received: from NAHOU-MSMBX05V.corp.enron.com ([172.24.192.108]) by nahou-msmbx03v.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.1600);
	 Thu, 2 Aug 2001 13:53:21 -0500
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4418.65
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: FW: Personal profiles
Date: Thu, 2 Aug 2001 13:53:23 -0500
Message-ID: <5BDC14D77394DA448AEF54C422A39A0B059A61@NAHOU-MSMBX05V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <5BDC14D77394DA448AEF54C422A39A0B059A61@NAHOU-MSMBX05V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: Personal profiles
Thread-Index: AcEaoxfJ+ZJO5VXBSLGuRjMgstvE5gA4RU3Q
X-Priority: 1
Priority: Urgent
Importance: high
From: "Molina, Jose" <Jose.Molina@ENRON.com>
To: "Giron, Darron C." <Darron.C.Giron@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Jose.Molina@ENRON.com

Darron,

I am sorry I didn't copy this to you at first,


Thanks,

Jose


 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Molina, Jose  
Sent:	Wednesday, August 01, 2001 11:01 AM
To:	Frihart, Bryant; Luce, Laura; Pollan, Sylvia S.; Roberts, Linda; Culotta, Lindsay; Murrell, Russell E
Subject:	Personal profiles
Importance:	High


Dear Origination Team,

The time has come to start building the front page of the origination web site. I am meeting next Monday with the web designer and she needs the profiles of the origination team to post them online.  Also I will be taking pictures of you soon to have them online as well.

I'd really appreciate that you take a few minutes of your time and write one or two paragraphs with your professional development (with some personal touch) by Friday this week.


Thank you in advance,

Jose  


Take a look at some samples from the weather group:




Mike Roberts
Michael (Mike) Roberts is a research scientist in the Enron Risk Management and Trade (ERMT) unit of Enron Capital & Trade resources. Mike joined Enron (Houston Natural Gas) in 1975 and became a member of Enron Capital & Trade Resources in 1995. Most recently, Mike was a Corporate Planning Consultant with Enron Corp. Prior to that, Mike held various positions with Enron Oil & Gas, its predecessor exploration companies, and Houston Pipeline Company. Before joining Houston Natural Gas, Mike worked for Amoco Corp's exploration and production subsidiary.In his current position, Mike is responsible for the development of analytical tools to support the marketing effort. Specific current projects include the development and maintenance of information databases, and analysis and delivery of real-time market intelligence relating to energy supply and demand. 
Mike graduated from Duke University with a B.S. degree in Earth and Ocean Sciences, and holds an M.S. degree from the University of South Carolina, also in physical science, and an M.S. degree from the University of Houston in undifferentiated engineering (Chemical Engineering Department). Mike also has an M.B.A. in management science from Houston Baptist University and a Juris Doctorate from the South Texas College of Law.

Jose Marquez

I am originally from Puerto Rico. In terms of free time, I enjoy travel, hiking, reading history books and play racquetball, where I am always looking for people to play. Being from the Caribbean and experience the fury of hurricanes help me to develop a strong curiosity to know more about these monsters of nature. So, at very young age I decided to become a meteorologist.
My education experience starts with a Bachelor's Degree in Environmental Sciences, minor in Geology, from University of Puerto Rico. After graduation, I joined the US Navy as a meteorologist/oceanographer serving for five years aboard the USS Blue Ridge (homeport Tokyo, Japan) and Misawa Air Force Base in northern Japan. Additionally, my participation in Desert Shield and Desert Storm as meteorological officer for the Seventh Fleet opened my eyes of the Earth and Atmospheric Sciences importance in everybody's lives.
I obtained my MS at Georgia Tech in Atlanta, specializing in Atmospheric Chemistry/Dynamics. Afterwards, I joined the Weather Channel as Latin America Meteorology Manager. The Weather Channel experience was great and a fun place to work at. However, at Enron I see unlimited potential for continuing growth and a very well prepared team where everybody's experiences and knowledge become a resourceful learning experience. It is a pleasure to be at Enron and be part of a winning team.





