Received: from nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.237]) by napdx-msmbx01v.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.1600);
	 Fri, 3 Aug 2001 00:20:22 -0800
Received: from corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.224]) by nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.1600);
	 Fri, 3 Aug 2001 02:20:18 -0600
Received: from mailman.enron.com (unverified) by corp.enron.com
 (Content Technologies SMTPRS 4.2.1) with ESMTP id <T5a0a848150c0a86ee241c@corp.enron.com> for <vpimenov@exchange.enron.com>;
 Fri, 3 Aug 2001 02:19:56 -0600
Received: from bocaratontravel.com (85-64-134-254.barak.net.il [85.64.134.254])
        by mailman.enron.com (8.11.4/8.11.4/corp-1.06) with ESMTP id g343Bbl32014
        for <Vladi.Pimenov@enron.com>; Fri, 3 Aug 2001 03:18:55 -0500 (CDT)
Return-path: <noumtmvf@bocaratontravel.com>
From: Moreen Veloz <noumtmvf@bocaratontravel.com>
To: <Vladi.Pimenov@enron.com>
Subject: Moreen Wall Street News MNEI  operatic
Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2001 02:20:29 -0600
Reply-To: <noumtmvf@bocaratontravel.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: plain
Message-ID: <110587948367214793>

SFri, 3 Aug 2001 02:11:02 -0600

Hot Pick (MNEI) For Next Week 300 to 500% Gains
Expected, Read Below: (853}721J1C19x1LwJ8

MNEI - The best Small Cap Stock in 2005 just keep
reading the profile and the news of this company
and you will see for yourself. 76% gain on friday
and 500% gain expected this week coming up. If you
are new to trading and need an account go too:
http://moneycentral.msn.com/investor/trading/customize.asp
Here you can open a new account with the best brokers.

Millennium National Events, Inc. - Ticker: MNEI

Ticker: MNEI
Current-Price: $0.97
1-2 weeks target price: $4-5
The Sky Is The Limit, look at level2 you will see.
http://bigcharts.marketwatch.com/quickchart/quickchart.asp?symb=mnei&sid=0&o_symb=mnei&freq=1&time=5

Millenniums current roster of event sponsors includes
such names as: WM Wrigley, American Express, Office
Depot, Verizon, Italian Rose, TWA, Power Sports,
Pizza Hut, Coca-Cola, Samuel Adams, Clear Channel
Communications, Viacom, Infinity Broadcasting,
Budweiser, COX Broadcasting, NBC local affiliates,
Brown Foreman (Jack Daniels), Southern Wine &
Spirits, Viking Ovens and Bergwater Vineyards.

And just read the Friday News... Read the entire
news below

Millennium National Events Enters Into an Exclusive
Strategic Alliance With SIGN-A-RAMA, the World's
Largest Sign Franchise System With Over 700 Stores
in Over 35 Countries

Millennium National Events Enters Into an Exclusive
Strategic Alliance With SIGN-A-RAMA, the World's
Largest Sign Franchise System With Over 700 Stores
in Over 35 Countries

Yes you read it right - this is serious company
with some serious business. We recommend it immediately
more great news is expected later this week.

Millennium National Events, Inc. (MNEI) is an event
company that is currently transforming the world of
special events and corporate sponsorship. The Company
is a fully integrated event promoter which owns,
partially or entirely, and/or operates a diversified
network of events and event promoters in the states
of Florida, New York, Indiana, Colorado, California
and Washington DC. 

Through its diverse segments, Millennium's footprint
is expanding in live entertainment, including sports
and music. While Millennium National Events owns and
is constantly acquiring existing events, our upcoming
calendar includes events with IMG, Clear Channel, SFX,
the ATP, NFL, PGA, LPGA, and NASCAR.

Ticker:MNEI
Current-Price: $0.97
1-2 weeks target price: $4-5
The Sky Is The Limit, look at level2 you will see.
http://bigcharts.marketwatch.com/quickchart/quickchart.asp?symb=mnei&sid=0&o_symb=mnei&freq=1&time=5


News Release:
DELRAY BEACH, Fla., Jan. 14 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/
Millennium National Events: MNEI today announced that
it has entered into an exclusive agreement with
SIGN-A-RAMA, giving the sign giant's 700 stores
in 35 countries the benefit of Millennium's preferred
vendor status with IMG, SFX and Clear Channel, and
its access to over 5000 events worldwide.

Millennium's strength exists in its ability to produce
one of the most robust and diverse schedules of events
using all venues for concerts, sporting events, festivals
and trade shows," said Mitchell Steinberg, Chairman
and COO of Millennium.

"Consolidating our signage consumption under one umbrella
with a company that has the scope and vision of
SIGN-A-RAMA will mean tremendous economy of scale
purchasing power to us and will yield significant
additional margin for both of our companies," added
Steinberg.

Industry estimates suggest that the expense budget on
signage for events in 2004 ran to approximately one
billion dollars worldwide.

The alliance with SIGN-A-RAMA will bring value-added
benefits to Millennium, with SIGN-A-RAMA shops throughout
the world acting as "printing and graphics divisions"
of the company. Added Steinberg, "It allows us to
outsource, which is key to streamlining operations,
the added bonus being that we maintain control and
confidence in execution. We know SIGN-A-RAMA shops
have the ability to get the job done, just about
anywhere in the world. Instead of being one more thing
to worry about, it becomes one more solid building
block in Millennium's ability to be a turnkey event
promoter worldwide."

Ray Titus, President of both SIGN-A-RAMA and EMBROIDME,
added, "We see this affiliation with Millennium as a
natural extension for both of our franchise companies,
SIGN-A-RAMA and EMBROIDME. The signage and embroidery
business is a perfect complement to any, and all,
events, and we are extremely excited about the positive
impact this will have for our family of franchise owners.


-------Full Legal Disclosure Below: ----------

Information within this email contains "forward looking
statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21B of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements that express or
involve discussions with respect to predictions, goals,
expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives,
assumptions or future events or performance are not
statements of historical fact and may be "forward
looking statements." Forward looking statements are
based on expectations, estimates and projections at
the time the statements are made that involve a number
of risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results
or events to differ materially from those presently
anticipated. Forward looking statements in this action may
be identified through the use of words such as: "projects",
"foresee", "expects", "estimates," "believes," "understands"
"will," "part of: "anticipates," or that by statements
indicating certain actions "may," "could," or "might"
occur. All information provided within this email
pertaining to investing, stocks, securities must be
understood as information provided and not investment
advice. Emerging Equity Alert advises all readers and
subscribers to seek advice from a registered professional
securities representative before deciding to trade in
stocks featured within this email. None of the material
within this report shall be construed as any kind of
investment advice. Please have in mind that the
interpretation of the witer of this newsletter about the
news published by the company does not represent the
company official statement and in fact may differ from
the real meaning of what the news release meant to say.
Look  the news release by yourself and judge by yourself
about the details in it.

In compliance with Section 17(b), we disclose the holding
of MNEI shares prior to the publication of this report. Be
aware of an inherent conflict of interest resulting from
such holdings due to our intent to profit from the liquidation
of these shares. Shares may be sold at any time, even after
positive statements have been made regarding the above
company. Since we own shares, there is an inherent conflict
of interest in our statements and opinions. Readers of this
publication are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements, which are based on certain
assumptions and expectations involving various risks and
uncertainties, that could cause results to differ materially
from those set forth in the forward- looking statements.

Please be advised that nothing within this email shall
constitute a solicitation or an invitation to get position
in or sell any security mentioned herein. This newsletter
is neither a registered investment advisor nor affiliated
with any broker or dealer. This newsletter was paid $7130
from third party to send this report.  All statements made
are our express opinion only and should be treated as such.
We may own, take position and sell any securities mentioned
at any time. This report includes forward-looking statements
within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. These statements may include terms as
"expect", "believe", "may", "will", "move","undervalued"
and "intend" or similar terms. dozen

astronaut cerebrate feast reading
