Received: from NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.98]) by NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Tue, 25 Sep 2001 13:48:55 -0500
x-mimeole: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: University of Houston & Energy Marketing Institute
Date: Tue, 25 Sep 2001 13:48:54 -0500
Message-ID: <208BFA232ABC394DB4B4878ECD74588D05B3E3@NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <208BFA232ABC394DB4B4878ECD74588D05B3E3@NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: University of Houston & Energy Marketing Institute
Thread-Index: AcFF8ronDrytv53LTVeC9HlojxzRew==
From: "Derbigny, Rodney" <Rodney.Derbigny@ENRON.com>
To: "Lay, Kenneth" <Kenneth.Lay@ENRON.com>,
	"Patrick, Christie" <Christie.Patrick@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Rodney.Derbigny@ENRON.com


	Greetings, my name is Rodney Derbigny and I am in the Associate / Analyst program here at Enron.  I'm writing because yesterday I attended the University of Houston 2001 Bauer College of Business Scholarship Dinner and I was surprised by the non-representation or presence of Enron at the banquet other than myself.  I graduated from the University of Houston with a BBA in MIS this past May and I'm curious to know why Enron is not more involved with U of H.  I know Enron is vastly involved in the community and institutions of higher learning, but I want to know if we can put a little more effort into relationship our with U of H.  Being that a large number of employees within this corporation have an affiliation or graduated from this fine university, I believe we would only be limiting ourselves and failing to capture the vast abundance of talent that attends this school.  

	Last night and at the career fair last week, I had the pleasure of meeting Dean Arthur Warga, Assistant Dean Bob Casey, and Associate Vice Chancellor Spencer Yantis.  These gentlemen informed me of the College of Business's new endeavors and direction, especially the Energy Marketing Institute.  I was informed that a presentation has been made to Enron regarding the Energy Marketing Institute, but the progress of the relationship is still on hold.  I respectfully request that Enron begin taking this opportunity into a serious consideration because of the vast opportunities it will provide for this company and the University.  At the banquet, a number of our current industry competitors were represented and have either become involved or voiced an intense desire to take advantage of the program.  Namely, Dynegy, Duke Energy, El Paso Energy, ExxonMobil, and BP Amoco were represented at the banquet.  With the name recognition Enron possess within the city of Houston and the desire it fuels within the hearts of students to become a part of the Enron team, it is unfortunate that we are not as involved as we could be.  Enron is doing a great multitude of excellent things, but I believe we can become better and do more.  If we are truly seeking to become the World's Leading company, we must capitalize off opportunities as such.  The Energy Marketing Institute at the Bauer College of Business will fuel and drive our future by preparing students to enter into the business in which we have made our mark and redefined the standards, Energy Marketing.

	As a UH Alumnus, I want to encourage Enron's relationship development activities with UH.  I truly hope we take advantage of the vast number of talented students U of H is preparing and become more heavily involved building an enduring relationship with this University, outside of just simple recruiting at a Career Fair.  There are numerous opportunities awaiting to be captured at UH, but if we do not realize this, the talent that is eagerly waiting to become a part of the Enron team will go elsewhere. The academic program at U of H is not only what makes it a fine institution, but the fact that U of H possesses a student body that is reflective of Enron itself.  The diversity of the university develops students who are culturally aware, understand the meaning of dedication and commitment (most students work and attend school), and who are fueled by an innovative, entrepreneurial mindset; all of the elements upon which we focus.    We need to take advantage of the access we have to U of H and position ourselves for the future by grasping hold of the students and opportunities at U of H.  Students graduate from the Bauer College of Business well-rounded, prepared to enter any arena of the workplace; from Marketing and Management to Information Technology and Finance, and ready to assume roles as the future executives and leaders of tomorrow.

	If there is anything I can do to assist in strengthening the relationships between Enron and my Alma Mata or demonstrating the importance of this need, please let me know.  I trust these words will not be viewed as offensive or taken lightly, but that they inspire change.  Enron can truly make a profound impact on the campus of the University of Houston, aid in the career advancement of new graduates, receive recognition in the community, and position itself to truly become the World's Leading company.  

	I hope I can be a part of the efforts to build the relationship with U of H and make the vision Enron has become a reality.  Thank you and take care.

Respectfully,   

Rodney J. Derbigny  
Global Technology Track 
Enron Energy Operations - IT
713-345-7467 



