Received: from nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.237]) by NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Sat, 27 Oct 2001 21:38:58 -0500
Received: from corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.226]) by nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Sat, 27 Oct 2001 21:38:57 -0500
Received: from mailman.enron.com (unverified) by corp.enron.com
 (Content Technologies SMTPRS 4.2.1) with ESMTP id <T56dc82aba7c0a86ee284c@corp.enron.com>;
 Sat, 27 Oct 2001 21:38:58 -0500
Received: from mail2.cloakroom.com (mail2.cloakroom.com [207.27.3.3])
	by mailman.enron.com (8.11.4/8.11.4/corp-1.06) with ESMTP id f9S2csV24531;
	Sat, 27 Oct 2001 21:38:54 -0500 (CDT)
Received: by mail2.cloakroom.com (Postfix, from userid 1001)
	id DBE3E3D442; Sat, 27 Oct 2001 22:38:24 -0400 (EDT)
Received: from lincoln.njgroup.com ([63.68.24.3])
	by mail2.cloakroom.com (8.10.2/8.10.2) with ESMTP id f9S2cNi08004
	for <CA-Del@mail2.cloakroom.com>; Sat, 27 Oct 2001 22:38:23 -0400
Received: by lincoln.njgroup.com with Internet Mail Service (5.5.2650.21)
	id <VYPA976Q>; Sat, 27 Oct 2001 22:38:23 -0400
Received: from cdprod2k1 (10.2.1.1 [10.2.1.1]) by capitol.njdc.com with SMTP (Microsoft Exchange Internet Mail Service Version 5.5.2650.21)
	id 4KGBDXMJ; Thu, 25 Oct 2001 22:56:17 -0400
From: ca-del@nationaljournal.com
Message-Id: <3.0.1.32.20011025225733.0075330c@njdc.com>
Date: Thu, 25 Oct 2001 22:57:33 -0700
Subject: National Journal's CongressDailyAM - Friday, October 26, 2001
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
Reply-To: cngdaily@njdc.com
Precedence: list
To: undisclosed-recipients:;
Return-Path: ca-del-owner@njdc.com

National Journal's CongressDailyAM
Issue date:  October 26, 2001

----------------------------
CongressDailyAM is now on the Web:
http://www.nationaljournal.com/pubs/congressdaily/

It's easy to use, plus you also get access to the afternoon
edition, Markup Reports, the searchable archive of stories
and more.

You may need a username and password to access the site.
If you don't have them, call 800-207-8001 today.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP
Lawmakers Return To Offices; Senators Debate Hart Cleanup
   While House and Senate members and their aides are returning
anxiously to their offices, congressional leaders have decided to
keep the Senate Hart and the House Longworth office buildings
closed. The House Ford Office Building, where anthrax was
discovered in a mail room, also was to remain closed today, a
Capitol Police spokeswoman said. The Dirksen Senate Office
Building is scheduled to reopen today, allowing another group of
senators to return to some of their normal routines.  But
attention continues to focus on the Hart Senate Office Building--
which could remain closed for several weeks, depending on what
method technicians decide to recommend to remove anthrax from the
building.
   In making the decision, leaders and their technical advisers
must decide whether it is better to inconvenience a large group
of senators--to get the entire building up and running sooner--or
a smaller group, to let the rest return to work. Senate Majority
Leader Daschle told reporters that when he informed colleagues of
the choice, he got plenty of suggestions.
   "We're getting a lot of engineering advice from colleagues,"
he said. Daschle outlined two goals. "We want to be able to
completely reopen all the contaminated areas as quickly as
possible and still access the building as quickly as possible,"
he said.
   Daschle said most of the Hart building could become accessible
quickly by sealing off the 13 offices in the southeast quadrant
that may be contaminated, and then remediating the quadrant where
the original contamination occurred in stages.
   The other option would be to undertake the decontamination all
at once, then reopen the entire Hart building--without
painstakingly sealing off a portion of it for a longer time.
   "Do you do it all at once, or do you seal off and do it in
stages?" he asked.
   Leaders also are focusing on how to deal with the backlog of
congressional mail. Daschle said his office receives about 5,000-
6,000 pieces of mail each week from his sparsely populated home
state of South Dakota--while senators from larger states get tens
of thousands of letters each week.
   Daschle said authorities have decided that all incoming mail
to the Capitol will be irradiated. Daschle called mail "the
foundation upon which any communication with your constituency is
built.... To be cut off from your mail is really a major
impediment to the way any Senate or House office works and
functions."
   In a Senate floor speech, Daschle said that technicians also
have discovered anthrax in an air conditioning filter on the Hart
building's ninth floor and in a stairwell between the eighth and
ninth floors in the building's southeast quadrant--which includes
Daschle's office, where an anthrax-tainted envelope was delivered
and opened a week and a half ago. But, he added, "The experts say
this is neither a surprise nor a concern."
   However, Daschle said anyone who rode the Hart building's
southwest freight elevator--where anthrax also has been
discovered--after Oct. 11 should contact the Capitol physician
and begin a 60-day treatment of antibiotics.
   Combined with the discovery of anthrax in the elevator, the
presence of anthrax in the air conditioning filter and stairwell
raises to three the number of locations it has been found in the
Hart building outside of Daschle's suite of offices.
   Daschle said Hart would reopen when the building is
"completely safe." He told a group of reporters, "We're not
talking about months--we're either talking days or weeks."
   Daschle indicated late Thursday that, if possible, the plan
would be to remediate the entire building at once. He indicated a
decision would be made in the next couple of days.
   In one bright spot during a day when fears of anthrax still
permeated the Capitol, Sen. John Breaux, D-La., was able to
return to his Hart building office to feed his now-famous
goldfish.
   "Some people have to make sacrifices, and my fish survived,"
Breaux said.
   He said he gave them a four-day food supply. "After that, I
gotta sneak back in," he said.
   Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, said he was not concerned for his
safety when he and some staff volunteers fed the fish in his Hart
building office, saying the pets were anthrax indicators.
   "They're my canaries," he said. "I tell you, if I [had]
slipped in and they were dead, I was out of there."
   Some sources have envisioned an upside to the dislocation and
inconvenience of so many senators: It could add pressure for
adjournment next month.
   On the other side of the Capitol, House Administration
Chairman Ney said Thursday that while the Longworth House Office
Building remains closed, environmental sweeps have not revealed
any new anthrax locations.
   "All the tests keeping coming back, and so far no hot spots,"
Ney said.
   Ney said that environmental sweeps in the Cannon and Rayburn
buildings, which reopened Thursday, were "adequate."
   But he said Longworth required even more extensive testing
because of the possibility that anthrax-tainted mail could have
arrived from the Ford House Office Building mailroom, where
anthrax was found.
   "We had to do more testing. That's all," Ney said. "No black
helicopters." -- By Geoff Earle and Mark Wegner
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

TRADE
Textile Lawmakers Still Wary On Trade Bill
   Several legislators from textile states who met earlier this
week with Commerce Secretary Evans said Thursday that they still
lack confidence that the Bush administration can stave off job
losses in the industry as it seeks to pursue additional trade
agreements under expedited procedures.
   "I'm a solid `no' unless they put something up," said Rep.
Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., of his position on renewal of
presidential trade negotiating authority. "I'm not going to turn
my back on the people who sent me here."
   Graham and others praised Evans, Trade Representative Zoellick
and other administration officials for listening to members'
concerns. But they lamented that the administration has not
offered concrete proposals for action. Among the specific issues
about which they are concerned is cracking down on
transshipments--a practice used to skirt agreed import
restrictions.
   Rep. Mac Collins, R-Ga., a textile state legislator who voted
for a "trade promotion authority" proposal by Ways and Means
Chairman Thomas in committee two weeks ago, has said he feels the
measure incorporates a commitment to vigorous enforcement of
trade agreements. But Collins appeared to be in a minority.
   It remains unclear when bill authored by Thomas will reach the
floor, as both congressional and lobbying sources this week
acknowledged privately that the votes are not yet there to pass
presidential trade negotiating authority--formerly known as "fast
track."
   Despite concessions in the Thomas bill to Democrats and other
supporters of enhanced labor and environmental provisions, the
bill has failed to develop a head of steam. Business lobbyists
have conceded they would have to work hard to turn out votes in
favor of the bill and labor advocates said they are close to
having the votes to defeat the bill.
   A CongressDaily poll of House members this week showed no gain
in support of the Thomas bill either from the labor and
environmental additions or the Sept. 11 attacks, which trade
supporters have indicated should build support for added
presidential powers.
   One issue of concern is enforcement of existing trade
agreements. Graham complained that because China has violated
agreements almost with impunity, little interest remains in
opening the door to additional trade pacts.
   Rep. Sue Myrick, R-N.C., acknowledged that smaller firms have
suffered from globalization for years for a variety of reasons--
but added that large, older firms are starting to cut payrolls
for the first time in memory.
   The difficulty is nailing down commitments from the
administration, the legislators said. This has become more
complicated since Sept. 11, because Pakistan, one of the leading
exporters of cotton, has sought relaxations of some restrictions
in exchange for supporting the war on terrorism.
   Congressional aides said the administration has been exploring
legislation to expand the economic relationship with Pakistan,
but some textile state legislators are concerned about how far
that package will go.
   "We can't just open the door indiscriminately to Pakistan,"
said Rep. Robin Hayes, R-N.C. "There are a lot of things we can
do for Pakistan other than completely loosening up imports."
   Myrick said the textile caucus is united in opposing trade
authority unless some of the issues are addressed. She and others
also emphasized their strong support for trade in general, but
only if it is conducted fairly.
   Noting the administration's decision to pursue a formal trade
investigation on behalf of the ailing steel industry, Myrick and
others said the Bush administration has shown a willingness to
stand up against unfair trade practices.
   "We're not asking for anything more than the steel industry,"
she said.
   On Thursday, Zoellick's office announced procedures for
considering whether to impose a safeguard action on certain steel
products under the so-called Section 201 actions. Those measures
could include a tariff, quotas or other steps.
   Zoellick will head an interagency panel to advise President
Bush on ways to support steel makers. Other members of the panel
will come from the departments of Commerce, Labor, State and
Treasury as well as OMB. The panel set a series of dates for
public comment and response.
   The International Trade Committee announced earlier this week
that dumping by foreign manufacturers had caused "serious injury"
to domestic producers. The commission said 12 product lines had
been harmed. Those product lines account for 79 percent of steel
manufactured in the United States.
   As the industry considers restructuring to adjust to increased
competition, the ITC will prepare a recommendation for
presidential action. The ITC process and comment period will
extend into the first week of 2002. -- By Stephen Norton
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

APPROPRIATIONS
Senate Approves FY02 Ag Bill; Fourth CR Goes To Nov. 16
   As congressional leaders promised stepped-up action on tardy
FY02 appropriations bills, the Senate approved one key measure--
the Agriculture bill--Thursday, while conferees continued work on
other bills.
   Both chambers Thursday approved a fourth continuing resolution
to keep the government operating. The current CR lasts through
the end of October; the next will carry funding through Nov. 16,
when the Thanksgiving recess is scheduled to begin.
   The FY02 Agriculture bill was approved 91-5 Thursday night by
the Senate. The bill provides approximately $74 billion for the
operations of the USDA, FDA, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and the Farm Credit Administration.
   Senate Agriculture Chairman Harkin offered an amendment to
ensure the Agriculture secretary's authority to close down meat
processing plants with high incidence of pathogens. But Harkin
withdrew the amendment after the Senate voted 50-45 for an
amendment, offered by Sen. Ben Nelson, D-Neb., that Harkin said
would have "gutted" his measure.
   Otherwise, this year's bill contained remarkably few
controversial amendments.
   Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., proposed but withdrew an amendment
to provide $150 million in aid to apple growers, after Senate
Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Herb Kohl, D-
Wis., promised to support a similar amendment in the House-passed
version of the bill.
   Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., noted in a floor speech that
because the spending bill was behind schedule, he would not offer
an amendment to ease agricultural sales to Cuba, but pledged to
offer the amendment next year.
   Moving the process along, senators Thursday appointed
conferees on the Agriculture bill, and also appointed conferees
on the FY02 Transportation bill.
   Also Thursday, conferees finalized the $17.1 billion FY02
Treasury-Postal appropriations bill, which increases funding by
$969 million over FY01 and $388 million over the president's FY02
budget request.
   The final bill, which will go to the House and Senate floors
for adoption next week, does not include the administration's
proposal to consolidate 18 accounts within the Executive Office
of the President, nor House-passed language opposed by the White
House to prevent Treasury Department enforcement of the ban on
travel to Cuba.
   It does retain House language favored by the president and
conservatives to continue the prohibition on the use of funds to
pay for abortions through the Federal Employees Health Benefit
Plan, as well as language added by Rep. Nita Lowey, D-N.Y., to
require plan providers to offer prescription contraceptive
coverage, with some exceptions.
   After making only halting progress this week, appropriators
say they will have conference reports on FY02 Energy and Water,
VA-HUD and Legislative Branch bills ready next week.
   In addition, the House Appropriations Committee is expected to
file the FY02 Defense bill, which will carry the second $20
billion of the $40 billion supplemental Congress passed last
month in response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The Senate
Defense Appropriations Subcommittee has yet to hold its markup of
the bill.
   House Appropriations ranking member David Obey, D-Wis., is
pushing to add billions more to the supplemental title for
defense and homeland security needs. But until President Bush
signals that he wants to spend more money this year, GOP leaders
and Appropriations Chairman Young are unlikely to go beyond the
$20 billion figure.
   Young and others also have said Congress could provide further
supplemental funds either early next year or later this year,
because the $40 billion package enacted in the wake of Sept. 11
is widely acknowledged to be only a "down payment" on the cost of
recovering from the attacks and fighting the war on terrorism.
   Senate Appropriations Chairman Byrd and Majority Whip Reid
have proposed a $20 billion package of  spending proposals on top
of the $40 billion supplemental.
   Meanwhile, Connecticut Gov. John Rowland, chairman of the
Republican Governors' Association, said administration officials
have promised states close to $600 million from the supplemental
spending package to fund state emergency preparedness efforts.
   Rowland, who spoke at the White House following a meeting
between Republican governors and President Bush, termed the sum
"an initial commitment," saying that administration officials had
asked the governors to identify further needs. -- By Jerry
Hagstrom, Lisa Caruso and Keith Koffler
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

ECONOMY
Schumer, Clinton Outline $5B Plan For Manhattan
   New York Democratic Sens. Charles Schumer and Hillary Rodham
Clinton Thursday sketched out a $5 billion plan to help the
crippled downtown Manhattan economy by creating a special
recovery zone there, the Associated Press reported.
   The plan to rescue New York's financial district in the wake
of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center is modeled on
empowerment zones created to bail out low-income neighborhoods.
   The main components of the Schumer-Clinton plan are employee
tax credits; residential tax credits: authority to issue triple-
tax exempt bonds for redevelopment; and advance refunding for
municipal entities like the Port Authority and hospitals.
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

ECONOMY
Senate GOP Adheres To Bush Outline On Economic Stimulus
   Resisting for now the temptation to put their own stamp on an
effort to boost the economy, Senate Finance Republicans zeroed in
late Thursday on a plan based almost exactly on President Bush's
four-point proposal, committee aides said.
   Finance ranking member Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, is to lay out
the plan next Tuesday before the full GOP conference, in hopes of
winning broad enough support to present it to Senate Finance
Chairman Baucus as the Republican approach to the issue. While
any number of modifications are possible from there, the plan
would be the marker from which a debate would follow, said a
committee GOP aide.
   The aide told reporters that senators embraced Bush's call for
accelerated income-tax rate cuts for income tax brackets--
possibly faster cuts than Bush had proposed. They also agreed to
back a recommendation for tax rebates to people who pay only
payroll taxes and therefore did not qualify for the income tax
cuts that became law this year in the form of payments of $300 to
$600.
   To spur more business investment, the senators are endorsing
Bush's proposal for a 30 percent bonus on top of what companies
can now depreciate and permanent relief from alternative minimum
taxes for corporations--but on a prospective basis only. The
House approved a bill this week that would allow a credit for AMT
liability going back 15 years, and many senators are cool toward
the proposal. The aide noted that the senators regard the
business elements as the "primary stimulus" in the proposal.
   The outline omitted expensing changes, allowing a carryback
for five years for net operating losses, and capital gains tax
cuts. Also left out of the plan Grassley is to present is a
package of expiring provisions known as the extenders.
   The House-passed bill included those items and would make
permanent a break for financial services firms operating
overseas.
   The measure also would include Bush's call for additional
funds for unemployment benefits and aid to states to help laid-
off workers retain their health insurance. Democrats have
criticized these proposals as inadequate.
   The aide said the goal is to stay within the $75 billion price
tag Bush wants, but the bill could cost a bit more.
   Earlier in the week, Grassley accompanied Baucus at the
presentation of a stimulus plan Baucus said would be taken up by
Finance members next week. That plan, providing about $70 billion
in stimulus, included a heavier spending component. The Baucus
plan would provide for $35 billion in tax relief--much less than
what Bush has suggested--and an equal amount in health and
unemployment benefits.
   The proposal was quickly panned by Treasury Secretary O'Neill,
who said he was "disappointed."
   Also, Senate moderates led by Sens. John Breaux, D-La., and
Olympia Snowe, R-Maine, have held meetings and laid out
principles for an acceptable stimulus package. -- By Stephen
Norton
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

ENERGY
Murkowski, Thomas Work To Determine Scope Of Energy Bill
   After months of blaming Democrats for failing on energy
policy, Senate Republicans are having some problems of their own
in coming up with an energy bill.
   "It's moving sideways, the way things normally work around
here," said a frustrated Senate Energy and Natural Resources
ranking member Frank Murkowski, R-Alaska, between sessions with
Republicans.
   At issue is the scope of the GOP energy package.
   Some Republicans, including Murkowski, would like to draft a
narrow bill that includes a controversial measure to drill for
oil in Alaska but sheds other contentious issues that have bogged
down the legislation in the past.
   "There is only so much time left in the year," said one
Republican aide. "Let's get done what we can get done."
   However, other Senate Republicans believe any energy policy
legislation should be broad in scope.
   "I am one who thinks that if we're going to do it, we should
do it," said Sen. Craig Thomas, R-Wyo.
   The dispute has nearly halted progress on the legislation,
which Murkowski had hoped to unveil earlier this week.
   Now, an aide said, the bill is not expected until next week.
Other aides had expected Murkowski to hand out an updated draft
before senators left Washington for the weekend this afternoon.
   A draft of the bill released this week by Murkowski's office
included provisions to drill in the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge and bolster the reliability of the nation's electricity
networks. It also would discard the Public Utility Holding
Company Act and Public Utility Regulatory Policy Act.
   However, a later draft did not address PUHCA and PURPA.
   Murkowski appeared worn as he scurried around the Senate
Thursday, negotiating with key Republicans.
   In one such meeting, Murkowski and Thomas huddled on the
Senate steps before a vote on an Agriculture spending bill.
   After a few minutes of intense discussions, Thomas reassured
Murkowski with a few pats on the back and they both entered the
Senate chamber with smiles on their faces.
   The encounter may have been symbolic; Republicans expect to
resolve their differences swiftly so they can turn their
attention to the person they see as the real obstacle: Majority
Leader Daschle. -- By Brody Mullins
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

FINANCE
Oxley Starts Working Group On Reinsurance Legislation
   With a view toward moving legislation before adjournment,
House Financial Services Chairman Oxley is developing a working
group to "start digging into" the subject of federal terrorism
reinsurance next week, a committee aide said Thursday.
   According to the aide, Oxley has tapped House Financial
Services Capital Markets Subcommittee Chairman Richard Baker, R-
La., to head the working group, which also will include
subcommittee ranking member Paul Kanjorski, D-Pa., as well as a
developing list of industry and other interested participants.
   Baker's subcommittee already has conducted one formal hearing
on the subject, taking testimony Wednesday from key government
officials. The aide said the working group would meet informally
starting next week to discuss and weigh the different proposals
that are on the table.
   One especially strong area of bipartisan consensus that
emerged during the subcommittee hearing was members' desire to
avoid any reinsurance plan that would expose taxpayers to
excessive risk. Several legislators criticized aspects of an
insurance industry plan and a White House proposal as doing just
that.
   At least one member of the Senate Banking Committee suggested
Thursday during a hearing on the same subject that some members
of the House might be reluctant to act on a reinsurance proposal.
That is not Oxley's view, the aide insisted.
   "Chairman Oxley has said it's something we're going to have to
address before Congress adjourns. We're just really moving
forward with the issue, with an eye toward developing our own
plan." -- By Pamela Barnett
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

TRANSPORTATION
Bush Favors GOP Aviation Bill; Dems Adamant On Security
   While House and Senate Republicans praised President Bush's
endorsement of the House GOP aviation security bill Thursday and
cleared space on the calendar to take it up next week, Democrats
strengthened their resolve to fight for full federalization of
airport security workers.
   "This is not a complicated issue," said House Minority Leader
Gephardt. "The status quo does not work and it must not stand. We
need to pull the system up by the roots and overhaul it for the
sake of all Americans."
   "I'm confused," Senate Majority Leader Daschle said about the
president's letter, which endorses the House bill and
criticizes--but does not threaten to veto--other measures.
   Earlier this month, Bush told Senate leaders he would not
oppose their version of the bill.
   Like the Senate bill passed 100-0 nearly two weeks ago, the
House GOP bill would beef up aviation security by deploying more
sky marshals and strengthening cockpit doors, but it would not
require airport security officials to be federal employees.
   The bill would require higher standards and more federal
oversight but still allow the screeners to be contracted out.
   It also would set up a new transportation security chief
within the Transportation Department, while the Senate bill would
place much of the oversight responsibility in the Justice
Department.
   The House GOP bill provides "an incentive for private security
to perform at a higher level, rather than an incentive to walk
away," House Chief Deputy Majority Whip Roy Blunt, R-Mo.,  told
reporters.
   But Democrats so far have not been swayed, and House Democrats
have held news conferences daily to say that most Americans want
the government to take over the system.
   "The pilots are with us. The flight attendants support us. The
customer service employees back our approach," Gephardt said.
   Gephardt also said that a strong airline bill would represent
steps forward in economic stimulus--another post-Sept. 11 issue
facing Congress.
   "A strong airline security bill will increase travel,
strengthen aviation, help our cities and, most importantly create
jobs for the people who make America strong," Gephardt said.
   He argued that when travelers feel safer on planes, "they will
take to the skies in greater numbers" and create business for
hotels, food service firms and others.
   Majority Leader Armey said Thursday that Democrats probably
will be allowed to offer a substitute bill when the aviation bill
comes to the floor Wednesday, indicating that Republican leaders
are confident they will have the votes to prevail.
   But Gephardt said, "Give us a vote and we will meet this
challenge." -- By April Fulton
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

JUDICIARY
Senators Pleased With Pared Anti-Terrorism Legislation
   Senate leaders praised their colleagues across the aisle
Thursday, saying the Senate's 98-1 passage of compromise anti-
terrorism legislation revealed the chamber's capacity for
bipartisanship and cooperation at a trying time.
   The House overwhelmingly approved identical legislation
Wednesday.
   Appearing together at a news conference following the vote,
Senate Majority Leader Daschle, Minority Leader Lott, Senate
Judiciary Chairman Leahy and ranking member Orrin Hatch, R-Utah,
sounded relieved that the contentious debate and late-night
negotiating sessions were over.
   They said the result was a substantive measure. "We didn't
want a bill that simply says we produced a bill," Leahy remarked.
Best of all, Leahy said, the bill strikes the proper balance
between security and liberty.
   While Leahy noted that the original proposal submitted by the
White House had to be pared down, Hatch said the final version
gives President Bush and Attorney General Ashcroft "what they
wanted."
   Joked Leahy, "The gestation period may have been a few weeks,
but it's better than giving birth to a monster."
   But some senators are unhappy with the final product. "This
bill does not strike the right balance between empowering law
enforcement and protecting civil liberties," said Sen. Russell
Feingold, D-Wis., the Associated Press reported.
   Leahy said negotiators have placed safeguards on the
legislation, including a four-year expiration date on the
wiretapping and electronic surveillance portion, court permission
before snooping into suspects' formerly private educational
records and court oversight over the FBI's use of a powerful e-
mail wiretap system.
   The bill's principals also disputed the idea that federal law
enforcement might hesitate to put the measure's surveillance and
intelligence gathering expansions into practice, since many of
them are designed to sunset in four years.
   Instead, the legislators argued, the effect of the sunsets
will be to make law enforcement all the more careful and diligent
in applying those new powers, knowing that the Congress will be
watching.
   Asked his thoughts on Ashcroft's recent suggestion to forgo a
public comment period and put the anti-terrorism law into effect
immediately, Leahy said only that he was sure Ashcroft and Bush
would follow the law. -- By Pamela Barnett
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

POLITICS
Dorgan Drops FY02 Effort On Drug Reimportation
   Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., who led a successful effort last
year to append drug reimportation language to the Agriculture
appropriations bill, said Thursday he would not carry through
plans to repeat the effort this year.
   "This is probably not the right time to have this debate,"
Dorgan said, noting that the issue still will be alive in a
House-Senate conference. The House included in its version of the
bill a provision allowing individuals to bring drugs back from
other countries for their own use, although it defeated an
amendment to allow distributors to do so.
   Former HHS Secretary Shalala declined last year to implement
the language contained in the FY01 Agriculture bill.
   Dorgan originally had planned to offer modified language this
year but had been undecided. While he said Thursday he would not
offer the amendment, he made it clear that he does not intend to
give up on the issue.
   "How do you justify to a woman with breast cancer that she
ought to pay 10 times more for Tamoxifen in the U.S. than in
Canada? The answer is you cannot justify it," he said.
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

JUDICIARY
Feinstein, Kyl Offer Measure On Anti-Terrorism At Ports
   Sens. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., and Jon Kyl, R-Ariz.,
announced plans Thursday to introduce a bill to strengthen anti-
terrorism efforts at U.S. ports of entry.
   A spokesman said they would introduce the bill as soon as the
drafting is completed.
   "Sept. 11 pointed out clear shortcomings in our immigration
and visa system," Feinstein said.
   According to the legislators, the measure would strengthen
U.S. anti-terrorism efforts by connecting law enforcement with a
centralized database, upgrading technologies used to prevent
fraud and illegal entry, and imposing new restrictions on student
visas.
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

POLITICS
Ney, Hoyer Make Time For Election Reform Bill
   While the security of the Capitol and House office buildings
has preoccupied House Administration Chairman Ney and ranking
member Steny Hoyer, D-Md., the two have met regularly this week
to discuss election reform--and could mark up a bill as soon as
next week.
   Their election reform bill probably would authorize grants to
assist state and local governments to modernize election
equipment and to improve poll worker training. The bill also
could commission a set of uniform election standards.
   Ney and Hoyer have long agreed on the outlines of a bipartisan
reform bill but have repeatedly delayed a markup. Asked how the
two have found time to discuss election reform while responding
to the security threats, Ney said, "We're making it."
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

TECHNOLOGY
Daniels E-Government Plan Emphasizes Internet Service
   OMB Director Daniels Thursday outlined an e-government plan to
use the Internet to improve service delivery to citizens, reduce
paperwork burdens on businesses, improvement management and
responsiveness of joint federal-state-local programs, and apply
commercial best practices to improve government operating
efficiency.
   The plan, developed by an e-government task force, identified
five areas that require executive attention to improve e-
government, National Journal's Technology Daily reported.
   These are: lack of agency participation, lack of architecture
decisions, security and privacy concerns, resource availability
and resistance from key stakeholders.
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

POLITICS
Crane, Senior House Republican, Draws Democratic Challenger
   Democrat Melissa Bean--a political newcomer who is a
consultant to small, high-tech businesses--has become the first
candidate from either party to officially declare her candidacy
next year against Rep. Philip Crane of Illinois, the House's
senior Republican.
   Crane's chief of staff said Tuesday that Crane is not
concerned about challenges from any Democrat because Republicans
traditionally have dominated the district--based in Chicago's
northwest suburbs, the Chicago Tribune reported.
   "We're not even going to focus on [Bean] until after the
primary," the aide said. "Crane is far more vulnerable in the
primary than in the general election."
   David McSweeney, who unsuccessfully ran against Crane in the
1998 GOP primary, is weighing another challenge to Crane.
   Local Democrats said Crane's name recognition is a major
obstacle. But they added that the Democratic vote totals in the
northwest suburbs have increased in recent elections.
   Bean appears to have a clear path to the Democratic nomination
after state Rep. Jack Franks opted to seek re-election rather
than take on Crane.
   "[Crane] is going to have two very strong challengers in March
and November, if he survives the March one," said state Sen.
Terry Link, chairman of the Lake County Democrats. "We're not
putting up a sacrificial lamb."
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
FLOOR SCHEDULE

*SENATE*
Convenes at 10:30 a.m. for a pro forma session. Not in session
Monday.

*HOUSE*
Not in session. Convenes at 2 p.m. Monday for a pro forma
session.



TODAY
=SENATE COMMITTEES=

ARMED SERVICES
Pending Business
Full committee meeting for committee members. S-407 Capitol. 9:30
a.m. Contact: 202-224-3871. (New/Closed.)
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
CAPTA
Children and Families Subcommittee hearing on children and
terrorism. (No new date announced.) 430 DSOB. 10 a.m. Contact:
202-224-5375. (Postponed.)

=HOUSE COMMITTEES=

GOVERNMENT REFORM
Presidential Records Act
Government Efficiency, Financial Management and Intergovernmental
Relations Subcommittee hearing on the Presidential Records Act.
(NOTE: due to closing, contact committee for alternate venue.)
2247 RHOB. 10 a.m. Contact: 202-225-5074. (Tentative.)
ON THE HILL TODAY
Economy
Citizens for a Sound Economy forum on the importance of
congressional action to restore confidence in the economy.
Location changed to CSE, 1250 H St., NW, Washington from HC-8,
Capitol. Participant: Gov. Bill Owens, R-Colo. CSE, 1250 H St.,
NW. 8:30 a.m. Contact: Chad Cowan, 202-942-7692. (Revised.)

OFF THE HILL TODAY:
DEFENSE
National Assn. of Counties first meeting of NACo Homeland
Security Task Force to determine how to provide a direct link to
federal agencies, especially the new White House Office of
Homeland Security. Participants:, 8:30 a.m., Michael Brown,
deputy director/general counsel, Federal Emergency Management
Agency; 9 a.m., Larry Thompson, deputy attorney general; 10 a.m.,
Patrick Libbey, president, National Assn. of County and City
Health Officials; 10:45 a.m., Ruben Barrales, director, White
House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs; 1 p.m., Larry Naake,
executive director, NACo, homeland security survey data
presentation; 1:30 p.m., Tom Ridge, director, White House Office
of Homeland Security. Public Technology Inc. 1301 Pennsylvania
Ave., NW, Eighth Floor. 8 a.m. Contact: 202-942-4220.

EDUCATION
Heritage Foundation. "Grading the Graders: How Internet-based
School Report Cards are Revolutionizing Educational
Accountability." Participant: Gov. Bill Owens, R-Colo. Heritage
Foundation, 214 Massachusetts Ave., NE, Lehrman Auditorium. 11
a.m. Contact: 202-675-1752.

POLITICS
60 Plus Assn., Free Congress Foundation and others. 13th annual
Conservative Leadership Conference, "Conservative Governance for
the 21st Century," October 25-27. Participants:, 9 a.m., House
Majority Whip DeLay, "Is Our Conservative Coalition in Congress
Ready to Lead?"; 11 a.m., Rep. Roscoe Bartlett, R-Md., "The
United States Constitution, As Good as It Ever Was"; 11:25 a.m.,
Senate Rules ranking member Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., "Campaign
Finance 'Reform', Giving Your Right to Speak to Ted Turner"; 3:25
p.m., Rep. John Doolittle, R-Calif., "Energy Policy and
Environmentalism: A Matter of National Security"; 4:15 p.m.,
Steve Forbes, CEO, Forbes Magazine, "What's Next for Our
Economy." Hilton Hotel Crystal City, 2399 Jefferson Davis
Highway, Arlington. 8:30 a.m. Contact: 800-827-5323.

POLITICS
District of Columbia Bar Assn. Brown bag luncheon on the
president's legislative agenda. Participant: Nicholas Calio,
director, White House Office of Legislative Affairs. Covington
and Burling Conference Center, 1201 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, 11th
Floor. Noon. Contact: 202-626-3463.

TELECOMMUNICATIONS
National Assn. of Regulatory Utility Commissioners national
summit on broadband deployment. Participants:, 8:45 a.m., Rep.
Heather Wilson, R-N.M.; 2 p.m., Role of Local Governments in
Broadband Deployment. Hyatt Regency Crystal City, 2799 Jefferson
Davis Highway, Arlington. Contact: 202-898-2214. (New.)

TRADE
U.S.-Panama Business Council, Panama Week 2001 telecommunications
forum and lunch. Participants: Rep. Tom Davis, R-Va., and Joaquin
Jacome, commerce and industry minister, Panama. Ritz Carlton
Hotel, 1700 Tysons Blvd., Salon III and Foyer, McLean, VA. 9 a.m.
Contact: 202-312-1645

MONDAY
=SENATE COMMITTEES=
None.

=HOUSE COMMITTEES=
None.

ON THE HILL MONDAY:
None.

OFF THE HILL MONDAY:
DEFENSE
American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research,  "The
Battle for Ideas in the U.S. War on Terrorism." Participants:
Nathan Sharansky, deputy prime minister, Israel; former House
Speaker Gingrich and former CIA Director James Woolsey. AEI, 1150
17th St., NW, Wohlstetter Conference Center, 12th Floor. 4 p.m.
Contact: Veronique Rodman, 202-862-4871. (New.)

TAXES
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, AICPA
National Conference on Federal Taxes and Fall Tax Division
Meeting. Participants:, 9:15 a.m., former Rep. Bill Archer, R-
Texas, "Legislative Update"; noon, Charles Rossotti,
commissioner, IRS. J.W. Marriott Hotel, 1331 Pennsylvania Ave.,
NW. 8 a.m. Contact: 202-434-9210.


TUESDAY
=SENATE COMMITTEES=
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
Environmental Health
Public Health Subcommittee hearing on environmental health. 430
DSOB. 10 a.m. Contact: 202-224-5375.

=HOUSE COMMITTEES=

SMALL BUSINESS
EPA Rulemaking
Regulatory Reform and Oversight Subcommittee hearing on EPA
rulemaking. (Rescheduled from October 25.) 2360 RHOB. 2 p.m.
Contact: 202-225-5821.

Veterans Affairs
Veterans' Employment
Benefits Subcommittee hearing on veterans' employment and
training service. 334 CHOB. 9 a.m. Contact: 202-225-9164.

WEDNESDAY
=SENATE COMMITTEES=
None.

=HOUSE COMMITTEES=
Energy and Commerce
Television Funds
Telecommunications and the Internet Subcommittee hearing to
examine the use of federal funds for public television
programming. 2123 RHOB. 10 a.m. Contact: 202-225-2927.

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Pending Legislation
Full committee markup on H.R.2998, Radio Free Afghanistan Act of
2001; H.R.2121, Russian Democracy Act of 2001; House resolution
on the Freedom Consolidation Act of 2001; House resolution on
International Disability and Victims of Landmines, Civil Strife
and Warfare Assistance Act of 2001; H.Con.Res.102, Hunter to
Harvest Resolution: A Decade of Concern for Africa;
H.Con.Res.211, Commending Daw Aung San Suu Kyi on the 10th
anniversary of receiving the Nobel Peace Prize and expressing the
sense of Congress with respect to the government of Burma;
H.Con.Res.242, Recognizing Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty's
success in promoting democracy and its continuing contribution to
U.S. national interests. 2172 RHOB. 10:15 a.m. Contact: 202-225-
5021. (New.)

THURSDAY
=SENATE COMMITTEES=

INDIAN AFFAIRS
Hunting/Fishing Rights
Full committee hearing on Alaska Native subsistence hunting and
fishing rights. 485 RSOB. 10 a.m. Contact: 202-224-2251

=HOUSE COMMITTEES=

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Afghan Assistance
Full committee hearing on America's assistance to the Afghan
people. 2172 RHOB. 11 a.m. Contact: 202-225-5021. (New.)

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
CongressDailyAM is published daily, Monday through Friday, by
National Journal Inc., when Congress is in session. Copyright
2001 by National Journal Inc., 1501 M St., NW, #300, Washington,
D.C. 20005. Retransmission, redistribution or reproduction of
CongressDaily is prohibited without the express, written
permission of National Journal Inc.

President--John Fox Sullivan, 202-739-8468 (jsullivan@njdc.com)
Publisher--Steve Hull, 202-739-8475 (shull@njdc.com)
Editor--Louis Peck, 202-739-8481 (lpeck@njdc.com)

Subscription price: $2,497 a year. Subscription and e-mail
transmission information: 202-266-7230 (cngdaily@njdc.com).
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

CDENDIT

