Received: from NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.40]) by NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Fri, 5 Oct 2001 14:01:22 -0500
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: EHS Weekly Report - Week ending 10/5/01
Date: Fri, 5 Oct 2001 14:01:19 -0500
Message-ID: <3EE466815F8A6949AC965AE0FB49B63F013782F5@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <3EE466815F8A6949AC965AE0FB49B63F013782F5@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: EHS Weekly Report - Week ending 10/5/01
Thread-Index: AcFN0B49/idQBGv+Rw2TJVfzSOxuTA==
From: "Glenn, Laura" <Laura_Glenn@ENRON.net>
To: "Kean, Steven J." <steve.kean@enron.com>
Cc: "McVicker, Maureen" <Maureen.McVicker@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Laura_Glenn@ENRON.net


ADMINISTRATIVE

Houston, Crisis Management Plans - Donnie Willmann and Marysol Martinez are evaluating responses from the international facilities to determine which facilities have a written Crisis Management Plan. Enron Corp EHS staff will assist those facilities that do not have a plan in the development of the Crisis Plan

EUROPE

Poland, ENS Power Plant - Alan Stringer conducted a gap analysis of the status of implementation of Enron Guidelines and identified that 80% of the guidelines would be in place by the time of the facility audit is conducted next week by Chuck Goode audit team. 

ENRON GLOBAL ASSETS

Venezuela, Vengas, Calife, Accroven - Edgar Zuleta  conducted Smith Driving Training and conducted EHS audits  at Vengas and Calife.     

Argentina, TGS - Henry Van discussed with Florentino Tobares and Enrique Rolando of TGS the verification and certification requirements for obtaining methane emission credits should TGS decide to implement a fugitive methane emissions testing program. 

CAPITAL PROJECTS

Yamaguchi Power Station (Ube, Japan)-  This proposal is for a site in southern Japan that would be a 1,400 MW coal-fired plant, with the coal being shipped to the site.  Joe Kolb completed his review of a draft of the environmental impact assessment scoping document, sent by Alan Stringer, for the Yamaguchi Power Station in Ube, Japan. 

DEPARTMENT PROJECTS

Corporate Responsibility Annual Report - The 2000 Corporate Responsibility Annual Report is located on the web at <http://ehs.corp.enron.com> Susan Worthen is awaiting final revisions to the distribution list.  Lauren Iannarone is drafting cover letters for Ken Lay.

Environmental Emerging Issues Database/Social Responsibility Risk Assessment Tool: Gavin Dillingham demonstrated the database to a group of EHS employees this morning. He is now waiting to be notified whether or not this database will be developed further.

ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGIES GROUP

Emissions Trading - Ontario, Canada Proposal:  Lisa Jacobson coordinated the drafting and submission of comments to Ontario in response to its proposed emissions trading program. Comments were coordinated with, ENA Canada, EGM Emissions and Government Affairs, as the proposal could impact power trading, emissions trading, and power development/investment.

 Emissions Offsets/Early Reduction Credits -- EES:  Mary Schoen has been working with EES Emissions Risk Management group to provide analysis and information that will allow EES create offsets/ERCs and capture environmental value of energy service transaction with a customer in California (Pilkington).

 Environmental Disclosure/Renewable Energy Attributes:  Stacey Bolton represented Enron in PJM's trial run-through of a tracking system for environmental attributes of electricity.  Stacey has worked to promote the use of market-based systems for attribute trading environmental disclosure within the PJM system.

New York SO2 Trading Lawsuit -- EGM:  Jeff Keeler provided EGM Emissions with a recommendation NOT to join a lawsuit against New York State to attempt to overturn its new law restricting the trade of SO2 allowances to sources in certain up-wind states. 

REGULATORY TECHNICAL ANALYSIS

Methanol -- Jim Peterson is reviewing proposed regulatory requirements in TSCA to assist Enron Global Markets in their response to a customer request for information on methanol.

EES Information Requests - Marc Phillips provided information to EES personnel about air regulatory requirements for installing an industrial  boiler in Kohler, Wisconsin and a turbine for electricity generation at Universal Studios in California.

Workstation Ergonomic Survey - Russell Tucker conducted a workstation ergonomic evaluation for an Enron Networks employee who indicates he is turning in a worker's compensation claim for work related trauma to his right wrist allegedly contributed to by his workstation set-up. Recommendations were made to reduce the ergonomic risk factors for his workstation.

Laura Glenn
Enron Corp
Environmental, Health & Safety
Phone: (713)646-7330
Fax: (713)345-6164
email: Laura.Glenn@enron.com


