Received: from NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.98]) by NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Thu, 29 Nov 2001 14:20:46 -0600
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: Important Announcement Regarding Document Preservation.
Date: Thu, 29 Nov 2001 14:17:21 -0600
Message-ID: <8CFEACF6E1C8DF449259F1FAA621B0DF3C044A@NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <8CFEACF6E1C8DF449259F1FAA621B0DF3C044A@NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: Important Announcement Regarding Document Preservation.
Thread-Index: AcF5EtnJhzss8K5STcOpsSntA9044g==
From: "Legal - James Derrick, Jr." <mbx_annclegal@ENRON.com>
To: "DL-GA-all_enron_worldwide2" <DL-GA-all_enron_worldwide2@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: mbx_annclegal@ENRON.com



	On Wednesday, October 31, I sent an email to all Enron employees worldwide in order to ensure that Enron employees retained documents that might be relevant to ongoing litigation.  New lawsuits have been filed that enlarge the scope of the information that Enron will need to retain. The following list includes both the topics in the earlier email and the topics related to the new lawsuits.  

Effective immediately, please do the following:

  	1.   	If you have any voice mails that relate in any way to the LJM Deal or Chewco Investments L.P. including any accounting issues related to these transactions, please forward the voice mails to  x3-6800.

2.  	If you have any voice mails that relate in any way to the proposed Dynegy merger or the Enron Corp. Savings Plan, including any accounting issues related to these transactions, please forward the voice mails to  x3-6802.

3.  	If you have any voice mails that relate in any way to Enron's public statements regarding EBS, Azurix, New Power Co., or any voice mail regarding financial transactions involving these matters, including accounting issues related to these matters, please forward the voice mails to  x3-6801.

   	4.   	If you have any voice mails that relate in any way to Enron's public statements regarding the proposed merger with Dynegy or the Enron Corp. Savings Plan or any voice mail regarding financial transactions involving these matters, including accounting issues related to these matters, please forward the voice mails to  x3-6802.

    	5.  	If you have any e-mails that relate in any way to the LJM Deal, Chewco Investments L.P., including any accounting issues related to these transactions, please forward the e-mails to LJM.litigation@enron.com.

6.   	If you have any e-mails that relate in any way to the proposed Dynegy merger, including any accounting issues related to these transactions, please forward the e-mails to dynegy.merger@enron.com.
 	
      7. 	If you have any e-mails that relate in any way to the Enron Corp. Savings Plan, including any accounting issues related to these transactions, please forward the e-mails to enron.savingsplan@enron.com.

  	8. 	If you have any e-mails that relate in any way to Enron's public statements regarding EBS, Azurix, New Power Co. or any e-mail regarding financial transactions involving these matters, including accounting issues related to these matters, please forward the e-mails to classaction.litigation@enron.com. 

9.  	If you have any e-mails that relate in any way to Enron's public statements regarding the proposed Dynegy merger or any e-mail regarding financial transactions involving these matters, including accounting issues related to these matters, please forward the e-mails to dynegy.merger@enron.com.

10.  	If you have any e-mails that relate in any way to Enron's public statements regarding the Enron Corp. Savings Plan or any e-mail regarding financial transactions involving these matters, including accounting issues related to these matters, please forward the e-mails to enron.savingsplan@enron.com.


	"LJM Deal" includes LJM Cayman L.P., LJM Co-Investment L.P., TNPC1, Margaux1, Cortez (TNPC), Osprey1, Avici, Catalytica, Fishtail (Pulp & Paper), Backbone, ENA CLO (Merlin), Nowa Sarzyna (Poland), Bob West, MEGS, Yosemite, EECC Turbines (Blue Dog), Raptor 1, Raptor 1a, Raptor 2, Raptor 2a, Raptor 3, Raptor 4, Rawhide, LJM2/WW Loan Agrmt, Osprey 2 LLC1, Rythms, Osprey, Cuiaba,  and LJM Cayco Investments.
 
Also, please forward all future e-mails and voice mails that relate to the above-referenced subjects to the appropriate e-mail address or voice mail box.  These procedures will ensure that our electronic documents and voice mails are properly preserved.

Shortly, our lawyers will be collecting our traditional files, i.e., written documents, for possible production in litigation.  Until further notice, please retain all of your hard-copy files now in your possession or that come into your possession that in any way relate to:

1.	   The LJM Deal 
	2.    Azurix 
	3.    New Power Co. 
	4.    EBS 
	5.    Chewco Investments L.P.
	6.    Accounting for any Enron investments 
	7.    Any Enron public statement made to the investment public 
 	8.    Any Enron public filing with the SEC or other regulatory bodies 
	9. 	The proposed merger with Dynegy
	10. 	The Enron Corp. Savings Plan. It is not necessary to send documents related to your personal participation in the Plan such as Plan communications to you regarding the status of your account.


	Please err on the side of retention of documents. 
 
If you have any questions, please call Andrew Edison at x5-7105. 


