Received: from NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.98]) by NAHOU-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Fri, 2 Nov 2001 08:55:21 -0600
x-mimeole: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: FW: EGS Newsletter
Date: Fri, 2 Nov 2001 08:55:20 -0600
Message-ID: <E01D7E35AED3E249BEC2F557C912CE153CC9CD@NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <E01D7E35AED3E249BEC2F557C912CE153CC9CD@NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: EGS Newsletter
Thread-Index: AcFi+m1Op8cvTM7tEdWxIwBQi+MJ2QACSnLQAAubElAAHIT6AAACjYqg
X-Priority: 1
Priority: Urgent
Importance: high
From: "Horton, Stanley" <Stanley.Horton@ENRON.com>
Sender: "Stark, Cindy" <Cindy.Stark@ENRON.com>
To: "Hayslett, Rod" <Rod.Hayslett@ENRON.com>,
	"Geaccone, Tracy" <Tracy.Geaccone@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Cindy.Stark@ENRON.com

Tracy:   Would you or Kathy set up this meeting for us?

Thanks!

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Horton, Stanley  
Sent:	Friday, November 02, 2001 7:49 AM
To:	Ambler, John
Subject:	RE: EGS Newsletter

Lets try it and then try to gauge whether it is accomplishing anything.  I believe our employees are on information overload and putting out another newsletter adds to the overload.  I have always believed that if we have an effective Corporate newsletter we don't need these subsidiary newsletters.  Meaningful information can be included in the corporate newsletter.  At ETS we used to have periodic FYI newsletters that were directed at key topics we needed to cover.

You and I also need to do a budget review.  The cost I am hearing from your group are to big for EGS to support.  I had truly hoped that Gina's group combined with you and perhaps one other person could cover EGS.  Gina's group was covering ETs and EOTT.  I think Adam has a PR person so we need to find out what PR costs are in the Wind company.  Also NBP's has there own PR person.

Please set up a meeting with Cindy and Tracy.

Thanks

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Ambler, John  
Sent:	Thursday, November 01, 2001 6:32 PM
To:	Horton, Stanley
Subject:	RE: EGS Newsletter

Since this newsletter will be sent via e-mail, there is little non-employee related expense.  We will be using existing staff and making this additional employee communication part of our assignments.  Translations, graphics, web support and printing should collectively be under $10,000 per year. (If a subsidiary decided to copy/reproduce for their hourly employees, they would have additional costs.)
Initially we would shoot for every three to four weeks, but this could change depending on interest and content.
This would not replace any other newsletters, but it might result in less local writing costs or redundant news in the EGS businesses.  We expect that Enron corp. vehicles like eBiz would draw from the newsletter for some of their content for the broader Enron audience.  This may  help in getting EGS employees to see themselves as part of a team rather than assets for sale.
Most of the information in the newsletter would be original. The 13,000 EGS employees can benefit from hearing from their chairman, occasional recognition and learning about other units' activities.  We plan to efficiently use our resources in developing this material, since the same effort will assist us in our necessary preparations for both external and internal audiences. 
We had not done the final check of the businesses and it was an oversight leaving out Brian Stanley's groups.  We will include them.

Are you comfortable with the responses outlined above?   If so, we would like to proceed, but need to  ensure that the approach in the chairman's letter is acceptable to you.  Your comments, when you have time, would be appreciated.


 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Horton, Stanley  
Sent:	Thursday, November 01, 2001 12:35 PM
To:	Ambler, John
Subject:	RE: EGS Newsletter

How much does putting out the newsletter cost?  How often are you proposing to put it out?  Does it replace any other newsletters?  Is there any new information in the newsletter or just restatements of what Ken, Mark and Greg have already said?  Need to make sure we have included Brian Stanley's group in what constitutes EGS.  Especially NEPCO.  

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Ambler, John  
Sent:	Thursday, November 01, 2001 11:24 AM
To:	Horton, Stanley
Cc:	Stark, Cindy
Subject:	EGS Newsletter

Stan,

With the formation of EGS, as well as all of the recent activity affecting the company, we feel that it is important to initiate an EGS newsletter to keep employees informed and motivated.  The most cost-effective and timely way of doing this is through e-mail, backed up with an intranet version and hard copies (in most cases printed off locally) for those employees who do not have PCs.  The newsletter would supplement other communication channels, such as messages from you, eSpeak, floor meetings, site visits, your periodic meetings and normal management communication.  

We would like to see how much news and interest we have before making a final determination, but would expect this newsletter to go out once or twice a month.  In addition to English, we intend to provide Spanish and Portuguese versions.   We will work to assist local management if they feel that other languages are needed for their operations.

Attached for your review is the proposed text for the first edition.  We believe a message from you and summary of the business units/operations in EGS is the appropriate content for the first edition.  In future editions we would expect to also cover business developments and news of interest to employees.  A template of our proposed design for the newsletter is also attached.  Any comments on the text or concept, as well as your approval to proceed would be greatly appreciated.  Of course, I am available at your convenience if you want to discuss this.

Thank you,

John

 << File: EGS Chairman's Letter.doc >>  << File: EGS Asset List.doc >>  << File: newsletter template.doc >>  

