Received: from nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.237]) by napdx-msmbx03p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Sun, 28 Apr 2002 13:25:50 -0800
Received: from NAHOU-MSMSW04P.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.224]) by nahou-mscnx06p.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Sun, 28 Apr 2002 15:24:14 -0600
Received: from mailman.enron.com (unverified) by NAHOU-MSMSW04P.corp.enron.com
 (Content Technologies SMTPRS 4.2.5) with ESMTP id <T5a0a831584c0a86ee241c@NAHOU-MSMSW04P.corp.enron.com> for <mcuilla@exchange.enron.com>;
 Sun, 28 Apr 2002 15:23:07 -0600
Received: from astroblues.de (197-233-90.dial.terra.cl [200.90.233.197])
        by mailman.enron.com (8.11.4/8.11.4/corp-1.06) with ESMTP id g343Bbl25986
        for <MCUILLA@ect.enron.com>; Sun, 28 Apr 2002 16:22:49 -0500 (CDT)
Message-ID: <AMHGGDDCIBDILEMPJBBCDPFKFLAB.sylvester.shelton_ei@chemeng.chmt.wits.ac.za>
From: "Sylvester Shelton" <sylvester.shelton_ei@chemeng.chmt.wits.ac.za>
To: MCUILLA@ect.enron.com
Subject: Select Smallcap for Astute Investors
Date: Sun, 28 Apr 2002 21:51:01 +0000
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable

Humana Trans Services Holding Corporation(OTC: HTSC) 

On Track to Exceed $6,000,000 in Revenues and Regain 
Profitability in FY2005. Clients Include: Cardinal 
Health, Penske Logistics and Royal Ahold (Source: News 
6/3/05) 

Current Price: 0.27 

Watch This One Trade... If You Think It Is Going to 
Explode Higher, You May Want to Get in Early.. 

Reason to Consider HTSC:(Source: Recent Press 
Releases) 


1)Humana Trans Services Holding Corp. Signs Agreement 
with Jeff Raymond of Pylon Management to Advisory 
Board and Consulting Agreement- Currently, Mr. 
Raymond, through Pylon Management, is a consultant to 
senior management of large national staffing company 
with revenues of over $100 million. Mr. Raymond, 
through Pylon Management, also is a consultant to a 
couple of smaller staffing companies. 

2)Humana Trans Services Holding Corp. Announces 
AccountAbilities Subsidiary- Pleased to announce the 
formation of AccountAbilities, a new subsidiary to 
operate as an accounting staffing group. The group 
will be headed by Allan Hartley who will serve as 
President of the new subsidiary. Mr. Hartley has been 
in the Accounting Placement business over 20 years. 

He has worked with national companies, Robert Half 
(RHI) and KForce (KFRC), in executive positions and is 
the creator of the AccountAbilities business model and 
concept. 

Mr. Hartley projects that AccountAbilities will be in 
five cities before the end of calendar 2005. The 
potential revenue for AccountAbilities is 
approximately $2,000,000 for each office for just the 
accounting staffing, without adding in any other 
professional staffing areas. 


3)Humana Trans Services Holding Corp. Sells Payroll 
Division Subsidiary, Returns to Profitability- Humana 
Trans Services is currently on track to exceed 
$6,000,000 in revenues and regain profitability in 
FY2005. 


About HTSC: (Source: News 6/3/05) 

Established in 2001, Humana is a fully reporting, 
publicly traded company listed currently on the 
over-the-counter (OTC) market under the symbol "HTSC". 
The company is primarily engaged in employee leasing 
and recruitment services in five states and maintains 
its corporate offices in Hanover, Md., with operations 
in the Northeast and Florida. 

HTSC currently provides human resource (HR) 
outsourcing principally to the transportation industry 
and to leading Fortune 500 companies including 
Cardinal Health, Penske Logistics and Royal Ahold. 




_______________________________ 

Information within this email contains "forward 
looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A 
of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21B of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Any statements that 
express or involve discussions with respect to 
predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, 
projections, objectives, goals, assumptions or future 
events or performance are not statements of historical 
fact and may be "forward looking statements."Forward 
looking statements are based on expectations, 
estimates and projections at the time the statements 
are made that involve a number of risks and 
uncertainties which could cause actual results or 
events to differ materially from those presently 
anticipated. Forward looking statements in this action 
may be identified through the use of words such as 
"projects", "foresee", "expects", "will," 
"anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "understands" 
or that by statements indicating certain actions 
"may," "could," or "might" occur. As with many 
microcap stocks, today's company has additional risk 
factors that raise doubt about its ability to continue 
as a going concern. Those factors include, but are not 
limited to: a limited operating history ,a nominal 
cash position, an accumulated deficit since its 
inception,a negative net worth,a going concern opinion 
from its auditor, reliance on loans from officers, 
directors and majority stockholders to pay expenses, 
and federal and state payroll taxes overdue by the 
company. Several states have filed tax liens against 
the company. There are numerous related party 
transactions. The Company is currently delinquent in 
their filings. The company is going to need financing. 
If that financing does not occur,the company may not 
be able to continue as a going concern in which case 
you could lose your entire investment. Other risks and 
uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the 
ability of the Company to complete its business 
plan,reliance on key personnel, market conditions, the 
general acceptance of the Company's products and 
technologies, competitive factors, timing, and other 
risks associated with their business. The publisher of 
this newsletter does not represent that the 
information contained in this message states all 
material facts or does not omit a material fact 
necessary to make the statements therein not 
misleading.All information provided within this email 
pertaining to investing, stocks, securities must be 
understood as information provided and not investment 
advice. The publisher of this newsletter advises all 
readers and subscribers to seek advice from a 
registered professional securities representative 
before deciding to trade in stocks featured within 
this email. None of the material within this report 
shall be construed as any kind of investment advice or 
solicitation.Many of these companies are on the verge 
of bankruptcy. You can lose all your money by 
investing in this stock. The publisher of this 
newsletter is not a registered investment advisor. 
Subscribers should not view information herein as 
legal, tax, accounting or investment advice. Any 
reference to past performance(s) of companies are 
specially selected to be referenced based on the 
favorable performance of these companies. You would 
need perfect timing to acheive the results in the 
examples given. There can be no assurance of that 
happening. Remember, as always, past performance is 
never indicative of future results and a thorough due 
diligence effort, including a review of a company's 
filings when available, should be completed prior to 
investing. In compliance with the Securities Act of 
1933, Section17(b), The publisher of this newsletter 
is contracted to receive seventy five thousand dollars 
from a third party, not an officer, director or 
affiliate shareholder for the circulation of this 
report. Be aware of an inherent conflict of interest 
resulting from such compensation due to the fact that 
this is a paid advertisement and is not without 
bias.The party that paid us has a position in the 
stock they will sell at anytime without notice. This 
could have a negative impact on the price of the 
stock, causing you to lose money. All factual 
information in this report was gathered from public 
sources, including but not limited to Company 
Websites, Company Filings and Company Press Releases. 
The publisher of this newsletter believes this 
information to be reliable but can make no guarantee 
as to its accuracy or completeness. Use of the 
material within this email constitutes your acceptance 
of these terms. 


