Received: from NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.41]) by NAHOU-MSMBX07V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Mon, 22 Oct 2001 16:35:00 -0500
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: EHS Weekly Report - Week ending 10/12/01
Date: Mon, 22 Oct 2001 16:35:00 -0500
Message-ID: <3EE466815F8A6949AC965AE0FB49B63F01378393@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <3EE466815F8A6949AC965AE0FB49B63F01378393@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: EHS Weekly Report - Week ending 10/12/01
Thread-Index: AcFbQWcEuN0dYgxIQu6J32dXWT2rCA==
From: "Glenn, Laura" <Laura_Glenn@ENRON.net>
To: "Kean, Steven J." <steve.kean@enron.com>
Cc: "McVicker, Maureen" <Maureen.McVicker@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Laura_Glenn@ENRON.net


ADMINISTRATIVE

Houston, Enron Campus - Donnie Willmann and Henry Van facilitated  the documentation of emergency response roles and responsibilities for the  Houston  Enron Campus.  Representatives from Enron Property; the Health Center, Corp. Security, Corp EHSand ETS safety staff developed procedures for employees to use in an emergency. The procedures will be finalized by Oct. 19.  Steve Allen drafted a potential script for an employee training program on Building Emergency Procedures 

EUROPE

London - Renewable Energy Projects - Alan Stringer provided information on European incineration directives and helped identify suitable consultants to assist EEOS in a review of regulatory permitting status in the UK and the potential implications on project timescales. 

London, Safety Regulations - Alan Stringer sent a request for information on building safety regulations for Europe, Asia and India.
 
ENRON INDUSTRIAL MARKETS

Mississippi, Leaf River Pulp Mill - Gus Eghneim and Ken Lovejoy will be coordinating the EHS transition activities of this newly acquired pulp mill. 

ENRON CLEAN FUELS

Texas, Methanol Plant - Ken Lovejoy and Jim Peterson are assisting the plant with waste disposal evaluations to insure regulatory compliance. 

Houston Non-attainment Costs - Marc Phillips provided information on the projected costs of the non-attainment regulations to EGM. 

State Safety Notices - Russell Tucker issued safety notices to NEPCO's safety team on a recent final rule from the Department of Industrial Relations (CA), Occupational Safety and Health Standards Board, that amended regulations regarding construction and general industry safety orders governing structural and scaffold planks.

DEPARTMENT PROJECTS

Phase II EHS Web Site-  Gavin Dillingham is currently placing Russ Tucker's Ergonomics Workplace Analysis CD on the website. Also, the safety videos should be live by next week on the site. 

Carbon Sequestration Lands Survey - Joe Kolb completed a survey of Enron lands that are forested or that could be planted in trees in the event a regulatory framework is established for carbon credits.  Enron owns, primarily in North America, ~94,000 acres of forested lands and 1,350 acres of lands that could be planted in trees.  

Operational Risk (RAC Group) - Susan Worthen and Lauren Iannarone met with Wanda Curry to discuss modeling operational risk.  Susan and Don Stevens met with the pulp and paper group to discuss a current project in which RAC has requested that they determine operational risk.  Based on the discussion , it appears RAC wants to model the unexpected EHS catastrophic events associated with an industry or transaction.
 
 AUDITS  - Chuck Goode completed a facility audit of the Nowa Saruzna Power Plant in Poland. Cheryl Gaines and Steve Allen are assembling a report on previous audit score results. Previous audit performance indicated by score, will be used as one element of a risk ranking matrix being developed to define recommended frequency of facility audits. 
  
ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGIES GROUP

International Markets -- Environmental Strategies Work with Australia, Japan:  Lisa Jacobson organized conference calls with commercial and regulatory groups at Enron Australia and Japan to provide assistance on emerging global and local environmental issues.  Offered global coordination services and developed initial projects focusing greenhouse gas emissions reduction programs, emissions trading, and renewable energy development and credit trading.

EGM "NOx Tech" & DOE Clean Coal Technology Funding:  Jeff Keeler worked with EGM Clean Energy Solutions group and DOE funding consultant (Liebman) to develop a strategy for EGM to apply for and receive funding for its "NOx Tech" pollution control technology as a demonstration project under DOE's Clean Coal program.  

Emissions Offsets/ERCs -- ENA & EGM Efforts:  Mary Schoen held a meeting with EGM and ENA representatives in San Francisco to discuss ENA efforts to create and obtain emissions offsets/ERCs for development projects, and how EGM Emissions group can assist in the process and expand opportunities beyond just Enron projects.

Energy Efficiency & Tradeable Efficiency Credits -- EES:  Stacey Bolton provided information and analysis on opportunities related to tradeable efficiency credits to Dave Roberts and Ozzie Pagan on EES DSM team for inclusion in presentations related to development of their new business model.  

Renewable Energy Supply/Demand Intelligence:  Jennifer Thome is conducting competitive intelligence research, including pulling together matrices of renewable energy RFPs and supply/demand, to inform ENA Renewable Power Desk. This information will be housed on the O-drive and accessible to the Renewable Power Desk team.




Laura Glenn
Enron Corp
Environmental, Health & Safety
Phone: (713)646-7330
Fax: (713)345-6164
email: Laura.Glenn@enron.com


