Received: from NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com ([192.168.110.40]) by NAHOU-MSMBX01V.corp.enron.com with Microsoft SMTPSVC(5.0.2195.2966);
	 Tue, 2 Oct 2001 08:28:12 -0500
x-mimeole: Produced By Microsoft Exchange V6.0.4712.0
content-class: urn:content-classes:message
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
Subject: FW: Competitive Analysis Update #26- US Response to Terrorism
Date: Tue, 2 Oct 2001 08:28:09 -0500
Message-ID: <AECCD639E83D0540BA407A252A23E53D1E798D@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: <AECCD639E83D0540BA407A252A23E53D1E798D@NAHOU-MSMBX03V.corp.enron.com>
Thread-Topic: Competitive Analysis Report- US Terrorism Attacks
Thread-Index: AcE61Rtt9WuSyKdjTDKVBYagaWGtJQAKve7QACDj1XAABW/lsAAEEUrQAAju8AAAIEjuwAANE0/gAAl+fxAAsgwGIAASqhdwACDFaaAAMhVz4AA8WvHwASbi1UABLDldUAAAR3wQ
X-Priority: 1
Priority: Urgent
Importance: high
From: "Grigsby, Mike" <Mike.Grigsby@ENRON.com>
To: "Allen, Phillip K." <Phillip.K.Allen@ENRON.com>,
	"Bass, Eric" <Eric.Bass@ENRON.com>,
	"Bike, Anne" <Anne.Bike@ENRON.com>,
	"Ermis, Frank" <Frank.Ermis@ENRON.com>,
	"Gay, Randall L." <Randall.L.Gay@ENRON.com>,
	"Heu, Mog" <Mog.Heu@ENRON.com>,
	"Holst, Keith" <Keith.Holst@ENRON.com>,
	"Huang, Jason" <Jason.Huang@ENRON.com>,
	"Kuykendall, Tori" <Tori.Kuykendall@ENRON.com>,
	"Lenhart, Matthew" <Matthew.Lenhart@ENRON.com>,
	"Lisk, Daniel" <Daniel.Lisk@ENRON.com>,
	"Reitmeyer, Jay" <Jay.Reitmeyer@ENRON.com>,
	"Sanchez, Monique" <Monique.Sanchez@ENRON.com>,
	"Scott, Susan M." <Susan.M.Scott@ENRON.com>,
	"Smith, Matt" <Matt.Smith@ENRON.com>,
	"South, Steven P." <Steven.P.South@ENRON.com>,
	"Sullivan, Patti" <Patti.Sullivan@ENRON.com>,
	"Tholt, Jane M." <Jane.M.Tholt@ENRON.com>,
	"Tycholiz, Barry" <Barry.Tycholiz@ENRON.com>,
	"Wolfe, Jason" <Jason.Wolfe@ENRON.com>
Return-Path: Mike.Grigsby@ENRON.com



 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Johnston, Robert  
Sent:	Tuesday, October 02, 2001 8:27 AM
To:	Whalley, Greg; Frevert, Mark; Mcconnell, Mike; Hickerson, Gary; Shankman, Jeffrey A.; McMahon, Jeffrey; Bowen Jr., Raymond; Lavorato, John; Kitchen, Louise; Kinneman, Jeff; Gonzales, Eric; Whitehead, Jonathan; Nowlan Jr., John L.; White, Bill; Schroeder Jr., Don; Maffett, Randal; Sekse, Per; Presto, Kevin M.; Belden, Tim; Heizenrader, Tim; Grigsby, Mike; Allen, Phillip K.; Kaminski, Vince J; Bradley, Michael; Kean, Steven J.; Robertson, Linda; Shapiro, Richard; Fuller, Robert; Tholan, Scott; Roth, Jim; Fitzsimmons, Brendan; Seigle, Clayton; Whitman, Britt; Aganon, Rommel; Landry, Kimberly; Holman, Kelly; Walsh, Kristin; Turner, Nancy; Lawlor, Dave; Kemp, John; Brindle, John; Cromley, David; Ewald, Laura; Scott, Eric; Reed, Andrea V.; Garner, Bruce; Lawyer, Larry; Neal, Scott; Woody, Rus; Fraser, Jennifer; Fallon, Jim; Imai, Rika; Will, Lloyd; Botsch, Dan; Dimichele, Rich; Shahi, Pushkar; Stuart III, William; Hirl, Joseph; Thirsk, Jeremy; Blesie, Brad; Young, Steve
Subject:	Competitive Analysis Update #26- US Response to Terrorism
Importance:	High


See below for update on situation in Afghanistan as well as fiscal stimulus plans in Congress.

RJ

1. 	The War on the Ground

For the most part, the military action in Afghanistan is likely to be the special forces "inserted" into Afghanistan to locate bin Laden. The special forces are doing very little in the way of fighting and will instead use the collected intelligence from various sources to "snatch" bin Laden and others, or to find other targets, identify them, and then call in attack aircraft.  Such attacks are by now well-priced in and would appear to be unlikely to have a disruptive impact on financial or energy markets.

Over the weekend, the press picked up on our reports from last week that currently the US has Delta Force, Green Beret, and Army Ranger units on the ground and some special operation forces "in-country."  Also,  British Special Air Service units, the French Regiment de Parachutistes d'Infanterie de Marine, and the German elite KSK special forces will be playing a role. Advance groups of the US 101st and 82nd airborne divisions arrived nearly a week ago at the Pakistani military base of Dar Esmail Khan, which is just west of the Suleyman mountains near Khojastan, a pass into Afghanistan and to Kandahar. Allied ground troops, backed by helicopter gunships and armored AC-130 armored planes have been stationed at former Soviet military airbases near Tashkent in Uzbekistan. 

The ground forces are backed by a massive concentration of allied airpower, ranging from nearly 150 US Air Force B-1 and B-52 bombers and F-16s and F-14s, as well as the nearly 400 aircraft in the four battle carrier groups the US Navy has moved into nearby waters led by the USS Enterprise, the USS Theodore Roosevelt, the USS Carl Vinson, and the USS Kitty Hawk. In addition the British have some 20,000 troops in Oman and a Royal Navy squadron around the HMS Invincible.

Allied air power and close ground support gunships are expected to provide air support to any coordinated attacks by the loosely aligned Northern Alliance, the main Afghan opposition to the Taliban.  

Due to the recognition of the difficult internal political situation in Pakistan, the US and allied presence is being kept to a very low profile and the actual contribution of Pakistani military forces is being kept to a minimum.  Yet it is the Pakistanis who will play a decisive role using their intelligence network in Afghanistan to find bin Laden.

2.	Fiscal Stimulus Outlook
By the end of October Congress will have passed a new package of stimulus measures totaling somewhere between $100 and $180 billion, if you count the $55 billion in airplane and reconstruction/defense spending already passed. 
Most officials with a dog in this hunt agree that tax-cutting gets preference over spending, but that there will have to be some direct spending to anesthetize the center-left crowd in the Senate and in the House where nerves are beginning to go raw over corporate "bailouts" that have not yet included anything directly for the employees. So for now, here is a brief list of the major policy options with equally brief commentary about their prospects:
·	Payroll tax cut/suspension -- This has emerged as the most likely item to be on any final list agreed to. As a stimulus item the economics are probably better on this than almost anything else, since it puts money directly in the pockets of workers who earn too little to pay income taxes and it can be implemented very quickly. Although it could add up to a very big number if suspended ($700 bn per year), because this is the money that goes into Social Security political leaders of both parties know they have to be careful about how the accounting and packaging get done on this. Still, both the White House and congressional Dems are big on this. Some version is likely to pass and the totals are likely to be somewhere around $30 bn. 
·	Accelerate the Bush tax cut -- If the original Bush tax cut was the right medicine, then why not have some more? The thinking here is that you have already agreed to do these things, and you no longer are watching the budget flip from black to red, why not put more money in the hands of those who pay the most taxes? The White House has been putting this idea forward, but not too aggressively, and the Democrats on the Hill have made it clear that they want the next tranche of tax relief to go to someone other than "the rich." Chances low, but if there is a broad package, this could get in. 
·	Capital gains tax cut -- This came on fast and has essentially died. It is too offensive and too obviously lacking in any stimulative qualities for anyone outside of senior House Republicans to like. Take this one off your list. 
·	Unemployment insurance and health care extension plus worker retraining programs -- These are very big among Democrats and the White House is sympathetic, but House Republican leaders are deeply split on this topic. There are some obviously restorative qualities to spending money this way, but the totals being batted around (over $30 billion for the retraining and health care components alone) send the Texas components of House leaders into shock, complaining of socialism. Democrats argue that Speaker Hastert promised them support for some serious version of these programs in return for bailing out the airlines without clogging the debate with "airline worker assistance" packages (worth about $4 billion). Hastert is saying he will still try to deliver, but his second and third in command are leading an in-house rebellion. 
·	Cut in corporate taxes -- A permanent cut in corporate taxes would be virtually impossible to wrangle through, but a temporary corporate tax cut is something that both Treasury Department and White House officials want to achieve. This is obviously something Democrats will not be happy about, but if they get the payroll tax relief and substantial amounts of their worker assistance package, they have to swallow hard for something. This was an early favorite of the administration's. As with most of the proposals that seemed so promising when they were first announced, this one has been running into some tough reality. There are a few problems with lower marginal corporate tax rates that have emerged. For one, many large corporations pay on something the IRS likes to call the AMT schedule (that's the Alternative Minimum Tax), so they would get no break at all. Even more disturbing is that companies with large tax-loss carryforwards sitting on the books as assets would take a massive hit on the value of these assets, since the calculated benefit they bring is adjusted downward all at once. For some weakened companies this alone could be fatal, since their attractiveness to acquirers depends on their loss-carry forwards. Finally, many employee expenses that companies can still get are deducted at their full marginal tax rate and the value of those deductions would obviously drop. 
·	Investment Tax Credit And Accelerated Depreciation Schedules -- The vast assortment of cuts that could come under this rubric are all plagued by the same problem: just talking about them gives businesses another reason to delay making investments. Even if the administration were to announce that all of these breaks will be given retroactively once legislation is passed, investments would be delayed since the fine print on what qualifies and on which schedule would mean huge differences in tax exposure. There is no way to propose these without delaying investment. On the plus side, the accelerated depreciation is simpler to describe in legislation, and can be done for a limited period without the same degree of distortion as the full ITC. Also, given the speed at which the stimulus debate is going forward, there may be less concern about the investment postponement issue. This item is likely in some form to make it into a final package, but the details don't exist yet, and its in the details that the significance of it lies. 
·	Specific sectoral tax breaks -- From the steel industry to the restaurant and hotel industry, every trade association has a specific tax break in mind that would help them recover. This is going to be the hardest to handicap since many of the small deals will be shoved in at the last minute on personal orders from members and they will not be big enough individually to make a macro difference. Cumulatively, though, these could easily top $10 billion before the special pleading is done.  Programs like high-speed rail, additional defense money, additional unemployment insurance for hard hit sectors could be shoved into this catch-all rubric. Some of these will make the cut others will not, but they can add up fast. 
·	Fast Track Trade Authority -- USTR Bob Zoellick told congressional leaders that if we had any chance to win the war against terrorism, the President would have to have full and complete fast track authority to cut trade deals as necessary. But Zoellick found himself apologizing to enraged Democrats for implying that a vote against fast track was a vote for terrorism. If he can recover from the politics of that maneuver, this one actually has some logic behind it as a diplomatic and economic response -- and it doesn't cost anything.

We will be following this for you with increasingly close focus this week since the real decisions will start to get made later this week and early in the next. Again, with an end-October deadline, there isn't a lot of time to waste and members of Congress are well aware of that fact. 

